Hey there. By now we've learned a lot about
functions and formulas. They are very helpful
tools for your toolbox and great for finding shortcuts
to complete calculations. But there's another tool
out there that does some of the same things in a
spreadsheet, the pivot table. As a quick reminder, pivot tables let you view data in multiple ways to find
insights and trends. We've talked before about how pivot tables help with cleaning and
organizing your data, including sorting and
grouping data, but pivot tables can also
help with calculations. For example, they're
great for quickly calculating sums and averages. Let's revisit our movie
dataset to show you how pivot tables and
calculations work hand-in-hand. Earlier we summarized and organized this data
in pivot tables. We'll do that here
too but in this case, the organization is a bonus to using pivot tables
for calculations. You can do these steps
in Excel as well, though some of the steps
might look different. In this example, your manager asked you to find
some trends to help them think through
new movie ideas using revenue calculations. This spreadsheet has data about movies from several years ago. It probably wouldn't be
as useful right now. Still, the steps we take
to analyze the data absolutely apply. Then and
now! Let's get into it. First, we need to find out how much revenue was
generated each year. A pivot table is a good
way to organize this, so we'll build a pivot
table to show this. In our pivot table, we can also find the average
revenue per movie. We can then check our findings
for some possible trends. We'll start by finding the
revenue generated each year. This gives us the Release
Date for each movie in column B and the Box
Office Revenue in column N. Instead of
organizing the table by year and building a formula to calculate the revenue per year, we'll create a pivot table. We'll add the pivot
table in a new sheet, keeping the data range
from cell A1 to cell N509. Adding a new sheet is especially helpful when working in a
large dataset like this. It helps keep our
calculations together in one place and separate
from the rest of the data. We'll rename this
new sheet Revenue to call out where our
calculations are, both for ourselves and
for anyone else on our team who might
need our analysis. Now we can build our pivot
table starting with the rows. We'll sort the rows
by release date to find the revenue for each year. You might notice this creates a row for every day on which one or more movies in this
dataset was released. Since we only need the years, we'll right-click in one of the cells in the
Release Date column to create a pivot date group,
and we'll group by year. Now we have one row for each year in which these
movies were released. Next, we want to
work with values. We'll add the Box Office
Revenue data here. This populates the column
next to the release dates with a total box office
revenue in each year. These calculations are automatic because the pivot table is already set to summarize the
data using the SUM function, so no need to change the setting. There's other functions
in the Summarize by menu though like MIN for the minimum
amount of revenue for each year and COUNT for the number of movies that generated revenue in each year. Let's check out what
we've got here. This data shows that 2014 had the highest box office revenue
while 2016 had the lowest. This might be useful
information, but finding the average revenue
per movie would most likely be more useful
since there was a number of different
movies released each year. We'll add another column for the average revenue earned
by each year's movies. We can do this in the
same pivot table. We'll add another value and change the function
that we use to summarize from SUM to AVERAGE. The AVERAGE function gives
us the average revenue per year for the
movies in the dataset. We can see that the
average revenue in 2015 was much lower
than in other years. Since this data
stands out so much, let's keep exploring
to find out why. Taking your analysis
to the next level like this is a sign
of a great analyst. When you're in your job, you want to answer
the questions that your managers and
stakeholders ask but you also want to
answer the ones that come up while you're
doing your analysis. Let's try to figure this out. First, we'll know how many movies from each year were
included in the dataset. We'll add a new value and use the COUNT function this time. This shows us that
there's more movies in the dataset from 2015 than from any other year but 2015 still has the second lowest
total box office revenue. This could mean a few things. It's likely that a lot
of the movies from 2015 just didn't earn much revenue compared to the other years which would bring down the overall average revenue, even if the total
revenue remained on par with the other years. We'll explore just this one
possibility here but you can always go further when you analyze data in your own job. It'll depend on
your objectives and the questions you need to answer. For now, let's copy and paste our pivot table so we
can test our hypothesis. We'll rename the columns in our copied table to differentiate them from
our original table. We'll name them based
on the data we'll be looking at which I'll
explain in a moment. Another great pivot
table feature that will help us here is
the filter option. Earlier you learned how
this lets us filter data so we can look at
only the values we need. We'll select a cell in our copied pivot table and add a filter to the Box
Office revenue. The filter will then be
applied to the entire table. When we open the Status menu, we can choose to filter the
data to show specific values. But in our case,
we want to filter by condition so we can figure out how many movies in each year are in less than $10
million of revenue. This is why we renamed
our columns with the less than sign and an abbreviation
for $10 million. The condition we'll use
in our filter is less than and our value
would be $10 million. We'll type our number in a
dollar and cents format so the condition matches the
data in our pivot table. This might not be necessary, but it prevents potential
errors from happening. Now we know that 20
movies released in 2015 made less than $10 million. This seems like a high number compared to the other years, but keep in mind there were more movies from
our dataset released in 2015 than the other years. It's still hard to tell
how much of an impact these lower earning movies
had on the average revenue. So let's run a quick formula
to find the percentage of movies for each year that
earned less than $10 million. This will make it easier to compare them from year to year. We'll create a
customized column called a calculated field
using our Values menu. A calculated field is a new field within
a pivot table that carries out certain calculations based on the values
of other fields. You can do this in Excel too using Field Settings
and the Create formula. To get our average we'll divide the count from our movies under $10 million by the count for all movies in our
original pivot table. After COUNT and an open parenthesis,
between single quotes we'll type a less than sign, and then the rest
of our column name and a closed parenthesis. Then we'll type a slash
as our division operator, and we'll repeat
the previous steps from our box office
revenue count. Then we'll select "Custom"
from our Summarize by menu since we're not
using the SUM function. That didn't work. We have an error message in
the calculated field. It might be because we're using values from two
different pivot tables. Let's first check that
a calculated field will work in our
copied pivot table. We'll change our
formula to prove that calculated fields work and to verify that the values in our average column are accurate. For our new formula, we'll use the SUM function
and divide the sum of the box office revenue data from our original table by the
count of the same data. Since we applied our filter
for this pivot table earlier, the formula will only return
the average revenue of movies under 10
million. That worked. So we know that it's not a problem with the
calculated field. As an added bonus,
we were able to check the accuracy of some data. Always a good thing. But we still need to
find the percentage of movies for each year that
earned less than $10 million. So instead of a calculated field, we'll add a formula
and a new column. Then we can use the
values from both of the pivot tables we'll
need for this calculation. We'll add a heading for
our table inside our G10. We'll name it, "Percent
of total movies." Then we'll add our formula to the next cell in the column. We'll divide the
number of movies in the copy table by the number of movies in the original table. Next, we'll use the fill
handle in the cell with our formula and drag it to apply the formula to the
rest of the years. And to cap it off, we'll format these numbers as percentages. Now our analysis shows that 16 percent of the movies released in 2015 are in less than
$10 million of revenue. The other years are all
close to 10 percent. This is one possible
explanation for why the average revenue is
comparatively low in 2015. In real life, we'd most likely need to take
our analysis even further and explore the data even more depending
on our objectives. But for this video, are objectives are complete. You've learned how you
can use pivot tables to perform data calculations. It'll take practice,
but pivot tables are worth it because they
do more than calculate. They organize and
filter data too. Pivot tables are also used
to form the framework for lots of data visualizations
like graphs and other charts. You'll learn more about
data visualization soon. For now though, take
a second to breathe. We've covered a lot of complex ideas in the
last few videos. Functions, formulas,
and pivot tables are all great tools to
use in your analysis. With practice and experience, it will feel like you've
used them forever. Just take your time getting
to know how they work. Use these videos and
other resources like the readings we've included
to explore them further. In the meantime, we'll
discover how the spreadsheet calculations you've been
learning about connect to calculations using
SQL. Stay tuned.