Hi there. Data analysts spend a lot of time
problem-solving, and that means
there's going to be times when you get stuck, but the trick is knowing what
to do when that happens. In this video, we'll talk about the importance of
knowing how to get help, whether that means
asking someone else for help or searching the
internet for answers. Asking other people about a problem you're having can help you find new solutions that
move a project forward. It's always a good idea to reach out to your
peers and mentors, especially if they're working
with you on that project. Your team members have valuable knowledge and insight that can help you find the solution
you need to get unstuck. Sometimes we spend a lot of time spinning our wheels saying, "I can do this myself,"
but we can be way more productive if we engage
with other people, find new resources
to lean on and try to get as many voices
as we can involved. For example, let's say
you're working with the bike trip time data
from the previous videos. Maybe you're trying to
find the average time between bike rides
in a given month. Calculating the
difference between bike rides before
midnight is easy, but you can run into a problem if the elapsed time crosses
into the next day. If someone went on a
bike ride at 11:00 PM, but the next ride
wasn't until 06:00 AM, your formula would return
a negative number because the end time is
less than the start time. You know that you
can add one minus the start time if two bike rides start and end on different days, but that formula won't work on times that happened
in the same day, and it's pretty inefficient
to scroll through every bike ride to pinpoint
these special cases. You need to find a way to
build a conditional formula, but you aren't sure how. You decide to check in
with other analysts working on your team to see
if they have any ideas. You could send them
a quick email, or stop by their desk, to find out if they have a minute to talk it over with you. Turns out they had
a similar problem on a previous project, and they're able to show you
a conditional formula that you could use to speed
up your calculations. Great! They suggest using an
IF formula like this. This basically says that, "if the end time is larger
than the start time, replace the standard
end time minus start time formula with one minus
start time plus end time." Now it's also possible
that your team members don't have an answer;
that's okay too. There's definitely
someone else with the same problem asking
the same questions online. Knowing how to find
solutions online is an incredibly valuable
problem-solving tool for data analysis. There's also all
kinds of forums where spreadsheet users
can ask questions, and you never know
what you can turn up with just a basic search. For example, let's say you look at "calculate number
of hours between times" spreadsheets and find a helpful walk-through for a more complicated
formula using MOD. This flips the
negative values into positive ones, solving
your calculation problem. Whether you're asking
someone you know or searching the
internet for answers, reaching out for
help can give you some really interesting
solutions and new ways to solve problems
for future analysis. Coming up, we'll learn
even more about searching for solutions online.
See you soon.