When people start out in data analytics,
they often think that those of us who've been in
the field for a while know everything. But trust me,
we're all still figuring things out. And a lot of the time that
means troubleshooting. Troubleshooting has to do with
asking the right questions, and that's what we'll focus on in this video. We'll learn how you can use
troubleshooting to solve all kinds of problems. To do this, we'll need to talk about
some of the limitations of VLOOKUP and then practice fixing some of the most
common problems that data analysts face. Some of the troubleshooting
questions I like to ask myself: How should I prioritize these issues? Trying to solve lots of problems
all at once can feel overwhelming. I find it helps when you
take things one at a time. Next I ask, In a single sentence,
what's the issue I'm facing? This helps to clarify
what's really going on, so I don't get bogged down
with extra details. After all, if you don't have a clear
objective before looking at the data, you can find just about anything. It's always best to start with your own
clear understanding of the situation. Then let the data tell you if
you're on the right track or not. The next question I ask myself is, What
resources can help me solve the problem? The internet is one of
the best resources out there. If you have a question, chances are thousands of others
run into exactly the same thing. So a quick search can be really helpful. And it's good to remember that
people are resources, too. Don't be afraid to ask questions. Not only is it a great way to learn, it can also help you build strong
relationships with your colleagues. And a final important
question I think about: How can I stop this problem
from happening in the future? If a new procedure or guideline can stop
the same issue from popping up again, that's a great time-saver. All right. Let's start by noting that
VLOOKUP only returns the first match it finds, even if there are lots
of possible matches. To understand this,
imagine your dataset is a phone book. According to research, some of the most
popular names are James Smith and Maria Garcia. This means, if you need information
about the 100th Maria Garcia listed, VLOOKUP won't work. It'll only give you results for
the very first Maria it finds. Something else to keep in mind is that
VLOOKUP can only return a value from the data to the right. It can't look left. Good news. There's a simple solution. Data analysts usually get around
the problem by copying and pasting a column to the left of
the data they want to look at. This way, the lookup value is
in the leftmost column and the data they want is to the right of it. Here's another problem I see a lot. Let's say the first few rows of a VLOOKUP
have returned the correct result. But when you drive the function down
the column, problems start popping up. This is probably because the table array
part of the function hasn't been locked or made absolute. An absolute reference is a reference
that is locked so that rows and columns won't change when copied. You can fix this issue by wrapping
the table array in dollar signs. As you learned a while back, the dollar sign controls how
the reference will be updated. They make sure that the corresponding
part of the reference doesn't change. Something else that can throw off
your VLOOKUP results are version control issues. In other words,
a function worked perfectly at first, but then something in the spreadsheet
it was referencing changed. For example,
maybe a user inserted a column. So now the columns in your function no
longer direct VLOOKUP to the right place. When something like this happens,
it'll return an incorrect value. There are a few actions data analysts
can take to ensure this doesn't happen. First, lock the spreadsheet. This stops other people
from making changes. To do this in Sheets, select Data,
then Protected sheets and ranges. In other spreadsheet applications, there
are other tools that do the same thing. Next, choose what you want to protect. In this case,
we want to protect the entire sheet. Then you can set permissions to either
show a warning or restrict who can edit. Choose only you, then Done. But keep in mind, there will be times when other people
need to work in the spreadsheet, so locking them out might make you
pretty unpopular with your coworkers. When that's the case, you can use MATCH,
which is a function used to locate the position of a specific lookup value
and can help you with version control. We won't get into that right now, but just know that it's an option
in case you ever need it. The final problem we'll talk about has to
do with exact and approximate matching. When using VLOOKUP,
you're likely to get different results, depending on whether you enter the word
TRUE or FALSE within your function. TRUE tells VLOOKUP to look for
approximate matches, and FALSE tells VLOOKUP to look for
exact matches. So if a function looks like this, it's
telling VLOOKUP to find the closest match to the text or number we're looking for. It's important to know that VLOOKUP starts
at the top of a specified range and searches downward vertically in
each cell to find the right value. It stops searching when it finds
any value that's greater than or equal to the lookup value. That's why data analysts
typically use FALSE, like this. That way VLOOKUP only returns
the exact match to what you've entered in the lookup value. VLOOKUP is one of the most popular lookup
and reference functions in spreadsheets. It's also one of the trickiest. Coming up, you'll learn about
more of these common challenges. Everything you learn will help you run
into fewer problems when you start using VLOOKUP as a future data analyst.