Hi again. Let's jump back in. Right now we're in the Analyze
phase of the data analysis process. And even though each phase is unique, data
analysts make decisions about organization throughout all of them. That's what we're talking about here: organization. It's super important that
you keep your data organized throughout your analysis. How your data is classified and
structured will impact your findings, whether you're working in a spreadsheet
or a database. And once you know how your data is
organized, you'll be able to capture or collect the information you need. Most of the data you'll use in your
analysis will be organized in tables. Tables help you organize similar
kinds of data into categories and subject areas that you can
focus on as you analyze. For example, this basic database
has tables for car dealerships, product details, and repair parts. Each table then has several fields
of data, like branch owner and the cost of repair parts. You can use these tables and fields to help you decide how to
move forward with your analysis. The structure of this database can
help you decide which data you need to pull to meet your objectives. For example, the total number of
a particular brand of car sold, or a repair part for a specific make
and model of a car at a certain branch. Tables allow you to make
decisions about data types. They help you to figure out
what variables you need and the data type those variables should have. So if you have a database where you need to
convert a data type during your analysis, you can do that by using
the CAST command in SQL or any other method that you learn on
the job or from your own research. Like this example where we converted
a purchase price column to be a FLOAT instead of a STRING so that it was in a numerical form
we could use for calculations. If you're performing your
analysis in a spreadsheet, you want to make sure that the columns and
rows are effectively organized. You can even hide columns that
you won't need for analysis or that show duplicate information. Once you have the data organized and
formatted, you'll be ready to sort and filter it to find the data you need. We'll cover sorting and filtering soon. But for now,
just know that both filters and sorts are affected by the type
of data we're working with. The bottom line is that it's important
to have your data in the right format. So always be prepared to adjust, no matter
how far into your analysis you are. That's all for now. Coming up, we'll show you what
filters are all about. Bye!