Hey there! So far, we've learned about typecasting
data with SQL as a way of converting data from one type to
another in databases. Now I want to check out another way to
format data types within spreadsheets. In this video,
we'll talk more about why making sure your data is formatted properly is so
important and how to format numbers and convert
units of measurement in your spreadsheets. Let's get started. Sometimes, you need to convert data
when you're working with spreadsheets. That might mean changing numbers
into dates, strings, percentages, or even currency. It's important to double check that all
of your data is in the right format for your analysis. Sometimes even after cleaning and
processing data, it still might not be in
the right format you need. Let's think back to the table
with movie data from before. There were a lot of different data types
that included numbers, such as dates, budgets, and text strings,
like actors' names. These are distinct values, but the spreadsheet doesn't always
automatically know that. Here's an example. Let's say you wanted to sort the movies
in this spreadsheet by most recent. If the spreadsheet cast them
as strings instead of dates, it might sort them alphabetically. Until you change the data type, you won't
be able to sort them the way you want. It's also possible that your datasets
contain inconsistent units of measurement that you'll need to convert. Like say, a table that includes both
US dollars and English pounds. That's why it's important to
check those data types again, so you don't run into any problems
during the actual analysis. Think about the incorrectly cast dates in
our movie table. If your boss needed a list of
the 20 most recent movies, but your spreadsheet was organized
alphabetically instead of by the most recent, you wouldn't be giving
her the list of movies she needed. Incorrectly formatted data can lead to
time-consuming mistakes in your analysis, and might end up affecting your
stakeholders' decision-making. But taking the time early on to
convert and format your data can help you avoid that. And now that you know why you'll need
to convert data types while working in spreadsheets, let's find out how. First, let me show you a really useful
menu for specifying data types in spreadsheets. Here's the movie data table we use before,
but now the money columns
aren't typed as currency. On the toolbar at the top of the sheet,
you'll find a menu that can help you convert these numbers
into specific data types. It gives you a lot of choices just from
the drop-down menu, such as number, currency, date, percentage.... And if you click to open the full menu,
there's even more options, including one for a custom number format. We know that we want these columns to be
in currency format, so let's do that. All I have to do is select this column and
then hit the currency shortcut. And now it's all typed correctly.
But it doesn't stop there. You can go even further and convert
the unit of measurement you're using. For this example,
let's check out a different table. Imagine that you're working with a weather
channel to gather data about daily temperatures. You have a table with some data about
daily observations on the temperature, wind speed, and
precipitation in this area. Right now, the temperatures
are in Fahrenheit, but for your analysis
you need them to be in Celsius. No problem. All you need to do is use the CONVERT
function to change the unit of measurement. We'll use this empty column here. Here's the first temperature in the table. We'll input the CONVERT function in our
new column to change it to Celsius. Then we need to put what
cell we want converted. And finally, we're going to convert. And presto! Now this cell has the right unit
of measurement for your analysis. You can simply apply it to
the rest of this column. Now this temperature data
is all in Celsius, and your unit of measurement is
consistent across the table. And here's another tip. When adding data to tables using
a formula, go back and paste the data in as values afterwards.
That way they're locked in. Otherwise the cell stays as a formula and could get confusing when you
start working with the data. So let's do that now. We'll copy the values and
then right click in a new column. There's an option for "Paste special." And
there's an option to "Paste values only." And now we have the static
values in this column. Making sure your data is in the right
format before you start analysis is so important. Do this, and your analysis will return the kinds of
answers you're really searching for. And now you know some ways
to typecast numbers and convert units of measurement
in spreadsheets. You can feel confident your data
is formatted the right way. Next up, we'll talk more about
adjusting your data for analysis and data validation. See you soon.