Hi again. So earlier we talked about conditional
formatting as a spreadsheet tool that changes how cells appear when
values meet specific conditions. This lets you add visual cues
to your spreadsheets that make it easier to understand
your table at a glance, and it makes the information in the worksheet
clearer to your stakeholders. In this video,
we'll take that even further by combining conditional formatting and data validation
to create custom tools for our spreadsheets. So far, we've used conditional formatting
to highlight empty cells that still needed data so that we could quickly pinpoint
what information our table was missing and add it in. Now, let's build on that by using it to
make our scheduling table easier to read at a glance. Here's a table we worked with
when we covered data validation. It's tracking the status of
different tasks on our project for our team to check on. But now there's even more tasks than
the last time we looked at it. This table has useful information,
but it takes a second to understand. Right now we don't have a visual on
how many tasks are in progress or how many upcoming deadlines there are. But if we color-coded those
elements of the table, we could quickly see key
pieces of data really easily. Let's start with the Status column,
column C. In the last example, we created these drop-
down menus with the data validation tool. Now we can use conditional
formatting to add some color. Let's go to the conditional formatting
option under the Format menu. This brings up a sidebar where we can
select our range rule in formatting style. We need to decide which rows to apply
our formatting to when the condition we set is met. We can click this button in the range
options to select all of the rows we're applying the formatting to
instead of typing it in. Now that we have those cells selected, we can choose the rule that we
want to apply to these cells. We already have drop-down
menus with specific text. So we can choose "Format Cells if...
Text is exactly" from the rules. For our first rule, let's write
"Not Yet Started" as the text condition. Then we'll choose a color to apply
to those cells that have "Not Yet Started" in them. Let's use red. Now all cells that have "Not Yet Started" selected from the drop-
down menu will be red. Let's hit the "Add another rule" button to
add conditional formatting to other status options. Let's add the condition "In Progress" next. We can make that one yellow. And
then we'll add one last rule for "Ready." Let's choose green. And there. Now we have an easy-to-
understand visual cue that tells us how many tasks are in progress,
and how many are completed. We can also combine data validation and conditional formatting to
track upcoming deadlines. We have a column of dates
called "Review By This Date." First, let's use the data validation
functionality to make sure users only enter valid dates. We'll go back to the Data dropdown at
the top, pull up Data validation, and select Date as our criteria. Then we can go to the Format menu at the
top. Go down to conditional formatting and open the sidebar again. We'll click the "Select range" icon and
select the "Review By This Date" column. Now under Format rules,
we can select "Date is after," which will give us another option. Let's choose "today." And finally, let's choose the color for
these cells. So if the date listed in these rows is
after today, it'll be filled in orange. You can also choose a specific
locked date if needed. But for now, let's go with today. Now all of the upcoming review dates
have an easy-to-see color code, so anyone using this table can
quickly reference these deadlines. You'll find that some spreadsheet
programs, like Excel, have built-in color codes that you
can use, too. And there you go. Now you know how to use data validation
and conditional formatting to create custom tools and visual cues that make
your information easy to understand. There's a lot of different
ways to use these tools, so feel free to experiment with them
in your own spreadsheets. Coming up, we'll keep learning about new tools for
spreadsheets and SQL. Bye for now.