Hi, again. Earlier, we covered data validation,
a spreadsheet function that adds drop-down lists to cells. Using data validation lets
you control what can and can't be entered into your worksheet. One of its uses is protecting structured
data and formulas in your spreadsheets. But as useful as it is, the data validation function is just one
part of a larger data validation process. This process involves checking and
rechecking the quality of your data so that it is complete, accurate,
secure, and consistent. While the data validation process
is a form of data cleaning, you should use it
throughout your analysis. If this all sounds familiar to you,
that's good. Ensuring you have good
data is super important. And in my opinion,
it's kind of fun because you can pair your knowledge of the business
with your technical skills. This will help you understand your data,
check that it's clean, and make sure you're aligning with
your business objectives. In other words, it's what you do to
make sure your data makes sense. Keep in mind, you'll build your business
knowledge with time and experience. And here's a pro tip. Asking as many questions as possible
whenever you need to will make this much easier. Okay, let's say we're analyzing
some data for a furniture retailer. We want to check that the values in
the purchase price column are always equal to the number of items sold
times the product price. So we'll add a formula in a new column
to recalculate the purchase prices using a multiplication formula. Now, comparing the totals,
there's at least one value that doesn't match the value
in the purchase price column. We need to find an answer to help
us move forward with our analysis. By doing some research and asking
questions, we find that there's a discount of 30% when customers buy five or
more of certain items. If we hadn't run this check,
we could have missed this completely. You've learned that as an analyst,
calculations are a big part of your job. So it's important that
whenever you do calculations, you always check to make sure
you've done them in the right way. Sometimes you'll run data validation
checks that are common-sense checks. For example,
let's say you're working on an analysis to figure out the effectiveness
of in-store promotions for a business that's only open on weekdays. You check to make sure that there's no
sales data for Saturday and Sundays. If your data does show sales on weekends, it might not be a problem
with the data itself. It might not even be a problem at all. There might be a good reason. Maybe your business hosts special
events on Saturdays and Sundays. Then you would have sales for
those weekends. You still might want to leave out
the weekend sales in your analysis if your objective is only to look at the weekdays. But doing this data validation might
save you from miscalculations and other errors in your analysis. You should always do data validation no
matter what analysis tool you're using. In an earlier video, we used SQL to
analyze some data about avocados. One of the queries was a check to make
sure the data showing the total number of bags was the sum of small,
large, and extra-large bags. By running this query, we were able to determine that
the total number column was accurate. We compared our two columns
briefly in that video. But to be absolutely sure that
there's no issues with the data values in those columns,
we could have also run another query. In this query, we would select
all using the asterisk, and FROM the avocado prices data set. In our WHERE clause, we'd also type out
where our calculated total does not equal the total bags column. If no values are returned, we can be sure that the values in
the Total Bags column are accurate. And that led us to continue our analysis. But when we tried to find what percent
of the total number of bags was small, we ran into a small problem. We received an error message
about dividing by zero. We fixed that error by
adjusting our query. If we had linked that query to
a presentation that went to our stakeholders, they'd show us the divide by zero
error instead of the figures we wanted. By building in these types of checks as
part of your data validation process, you can avoid errors in your analysis and complete your business objectives
to make everyone happy. And trust me.
It's a great feeling when you do. And another great feeling is knowing that
you've made it through another video and learned something new. And we have more where that
came from coming soon. See you.