Hey there! You probably do a lot of calculations
in your daily life. Maybe it's figuring
out how to tip someone or balancing your budget. You might do some of these
calculations in your head or with paper and pencil or the
calculator on your phone. You might even have shortcuts you use to make the
calculations easier. You'll perform a lot of these calculations as
a data analyst too. But they'll involve more numbers and a wider range
of calculations. That's where you will put your data analyst tools to work. We'll show you how you
can use formulas in a spreadsheet to complete some of the more basic calculations. Formulas are one of the many shortcuts that
data analysts use. But rest assured, even
though they're shortcuts, they still calculate
with complete accuracy. We've covered a lot
of these calculations earlier in the program, but if you skipped that part
and want a refresher, we'll review them here. These calculations will also be more advanced than the
ones we've covered so far. But they will also be closer to what you might use on the job. We'll be using Google Sheets in this video, but you
can also use Excel. The steps might look a
little different in Excel, but the outcomes
will be the same. Let's try out some
calculations with sales data from a
discount store chain. We'll look at data from one
of the stores in the chain. Our objective: use the
existing sales data to find any trends. This is a great way to
see a lot of the ways formulas can be useful
in your analysis. We'll start by
finding annual sales over the years 2011-2020. The data's already
organized in columns by month and in rows by year, but we don't have the total
sales for each year yet. We can use a SUM function
to help us figure that out. We'll add the sales
for 2011 first. We'll add a heading for
the annual sales column. Then we can type our SUM
function in a formula. All formulas begin
with an equals sign. We'll type that first, followed by SUM, and then
an open parenthesis. After the open parenthesis, we need to tell the formula
which cells are being added. In this case, we need data from the whole row, which
begins in cell B2. B2 is a cell reference we'll use. Instead of typing
each cell one by one, we can put them in
the formula quickly by selecting cell B2 and dragging the fill
handle across the row to the last cell
with sales data, M2. The fill handle is the tiny box in the
corner of each cell. You can use it for lots of things like selecting
multiple cells for a formula or continuing a pattern
across several cells. The fill handle definitely
qualifies as a shortcut. Now we'll complete the
formula by closing the parenthesis and
pressing Enter. Just like that, we've calculated the total sales for 2011. Here's another shortcut we
worked on in an earlier video. We can use the formula
we created to calculate the total cells for the
other years in the dataset. All we have to do is drag
the fill handle down the other cells in the
Annual sales column, and we'll have total sales data for the rest of the years
in the dataset. Let's say we also need to find the growth in annual
sales from year to year. This would be a good
time to think through the problem before
we try to solve it. Do we have the data we
need to solve this? Not yet. Thinking backwards like this helps us plan out the
steps to move forward. The first step
we'll need to do is calculate the total
sales by year. Then we'll measure the rate
of change between years. We'll start by
labeling a new column. In this case, we won't need to use a function or
parentheses. Since we're only using
data from two cells, we can just use the
name of those cells. We'll type an equals sign
and then click in cell N3, which automatically populates
that cell in the formula. Next, we'll add a minus sign
to the formula because we're subtracting to find
the difference between two consecutive years. Clicking in cell N2 gives
us the total from 2011, which we can then subtract
from the total from 2012. Then we hit Enter and get our sales growth from 2011-2012. We're definitely getting
some useful data here, so let's keep going. We can also use our
sales growth to find the growth rate
between the two years. We'll show this as a percentage. We'll head our column with
the percent sign and growth. To do this, we'll divide
the total in cell O2 by the annual sales
from 2011 in cell N2. A slash is a symbol that a formula recognizes as division. We'll place that between
the two cell references. And presto! There's
the growth rate. Growth rates are usually
shown as percentages, which can be easier than a decimal to read and understand. Let's change this
number to a percentage. Time for another shortcut. All we have to do is click the percent style button, and our growth rate will
become a percentage. We can select the cells
for both the total growth and the growth rate to populate the rest of the two columns. We have some negative numbers, but that just means
that there was negative growth from
one year to the next. We've got just a
few more things to calculate for our stakeholders. Next up is finding
the average sales. We want to compare sales between months to learn
if there's a trend. We'll add this in a
row instead of a column. This will line up our
averages under each month. To find our averages, we'll calculate the
total and then divide that total by the number of
values added to get it. We can do this by using
the AVERAGE function. Between our parentheses, we'll select the
cells that contain the sales data for
January, B2 through B11. We'll duplicate
that formula across the row through December
to look for trends. Right away, we know
that summer months and December have the
highest average sales. Since our stakeholders
will want to understand our findings
quickly and easily, we'll add a little
visualization to the data with
conditional formatting. Conditional formatting is a
spreadsheet tool that changes how cells appear when values
meets specific conditions. Let's apply conditional
formatting to the cells with the
average sales by month. We'll use a color scale to
show the range of averages, with the lowest monthly
average remaining as white, and we'll apply shades of green to the rest of the values. The brighter the green, the higher the average. Now when we share our analysis
with our stakeholders, they'll be able to
tell right away which months have the
highest average sales. Just a couple more steps
to complete our analysis. Now we need to find
the minimum and maximum for average
monthly sales. With the dataset this small, it might be easy to find the minimum and maximum
values without a formula. But it's still good
practice to use one. Not to mention, using a formula helps
prevent human error. We'll again rely on formulas with functions to do
these calculations. We'll start with the
lowest monthly average. Our function here is MIN, followed by the cells with the average by month,
B12 through M12. After we press Enter, the lowest monthly
average is calculated. We can repeat the same steps to find the highest monthly average. In this formula we'll
use the same data, but we'll replace MIN
with MAX for maximum. For this store location, sales are strongest in December
and weakest in January. We could share
these findings with stakeholders if they've
met our objectives. If they haven't, we might need to continue with our analysis. Either way, I hope you've learned how spreadsheet formulas can be valuable tools
when doing calculations. Coming up, we'll check out
more formulas. See you soon.