Hi, again. In this video, we'll prep our data for VLOOKUP, a data aggregation tool. As you learned before, data aggregation is the
process of gathering data from multiple sources in order to combine it into a single
summarized collection. Data aggregation can
give you all kinds of information about the
data you are looking at. For example, in marketing, you can aggregate data from
an ad campaign to see how it performed over time and
for particular customers. Travel companies use data
aggregation to figure out how much their competitors
charge for a certain flight, hotel room, or rental car type. Then, they can make
sure they price their own products as
competitively as possible. One thing these businesses all have in common
is that they can use VLOOKUP to help them
achieve these goals. As a reminder, VLOOKUP
stands for vertical lookup. Basically, it's a function that searches for a certain value in a column to return a corresponding
piece of information. Earlier, we used VLOOKUP to take the value in one cell and
search for a match in another. We were able to match a product code made up of
numbers and letters that lived in one spreadsheet to the actual name of the product
that lived in another. But before any of
that can happen, we need to make sure our
data is properly prepared. As you've heard many times, clean data is much more likely to give you
accurate results. Let's start with the first
common data-cleaning task: different data types. For example, a dataset might
have dates formatted as numbers, or numbers represented as text strings instead
of numeric values. When data is not in a
consistent format or a format that the spreadsheet
application recognizes, VLOOKUP won't know
what to do with that data, and it will
return an error. Earlier, you learned
how to convert numbers to dates using
the Format tool. Now, let's focus on converting
text to numeric values. To do this, you could use the Format menu to
select a type of number, but you could also use
the VALUE function. VALUE is a function that
converts a text string that represents a number
to a numerical value. Here's an example. In this spreadsheet,
the numbers in column A are currently
text strings. We can confirm this by running
a simple SUM function. The syntax is equals
SUM, open parenthesis, and then the items you
want to add together. Here, it's A2 to A4. The colon says we're including everything between
these two references. Now you can add a
closed parenthesis and press Enter, or you can click and drag on the cells you want inside the parentheses to
save a little bit of time. The result is zero. That's because the function
doesn't work on text strings. But if we apply the
VALUE function, it automatically converts
that text to a numeric value. To do that, we'll
type equals VALUE, then an open parenthesis. Inside, we reference the cell whose value
we want to convert, in this case A2. Now if we close the
parentheses and press Enter, you'll notice that the 1, 2, 3 is numeric. If we drag it down
the column, the 4, 5, 6 and 7, 8, 9 also become numeric. Now we can test it by running
another SUM function. We'll type equals SUM
and an open parenthesis, then B2, colon, and B4. B2, B3, and B4 are
included in the sum. Close the parentheses
and press Enter. Now it shows that
the total is 1,368. The next common error
comes from having extra spaces in your spreadsheet. As you've learned, when data is copied from one
source to another, sometimes a few leading or
trailing spaces tag along. These can cause problems
when using VLOOKUP. We want to make sure to use TRIM during the data-
cleaning process. TRIM automatically
deletes any extra spaces added to the cell. Another typical
mistake in VLOOKUP, which you can easily catch during data cleaning, are duplicates. If there are duplicate
rows in the search, it will return only the
first match it finds. As you learned before, Remove duplicates is a
tool that automatically searches for and eliminates duplicate entries
from a spreadsheet. Using Remove duplicates, as you saw in a video a
little while ago, is a great way to get rid
of duplicates and help make sure you find the right
record during the lookup. It's always good to
remember that clean data is the foundation that
everything else is built on. VLOOKUP can be a very
useful data-cleaning tool. In the next video, we'll keep exploring
more ways you can use VLOOKUP. See you there.