Hello. So let's talk about how you can be sure you're
prepared for a Q & A. For starters, knowing
the questions ahead of time can make
a big difference. You don't have to
be a mind reader, but there's a few things you can do to prepare that'll help. For this example, we'll go
back to the presentation we created about health and
happiness around the world. We put together these slides, clean them up a bit, and now we're getting ready
for the actual presentation. Let's go over some ways we can anticipate possible
questions before our Q & A to give us more time
to think about the answers. Understanding your
stakeholder's expectations will help you predict the
questions they might ask. As we previously discussed, it's important to set stakeholder expectations
early in the project. Keep their expectations
in mind while you're planning presentations
and Q & A sessions. Make sure you have a clear understanding of
the objective and what the stakeholders wanted when they asked you to
take on this project. For this project, our
stakeholders were interested in what factors contributed to a happier life around the world. Our objective was to identify
if there were geographic, demographic, and/or economic factors that contributed
to a happier life. Knowing that, we can
start thinking about the potential questions about that objective they might have. At the end of the day, if you misunderstood your
stakeholders' expectations or the project objectives, you won't be able to correctly anticipate or answer their questions. Think about these
things early and often when planning for a Q & A. Once you feel confident
that you fully understand your stakeholders' expectations
and the project goals, you can start identifying
possible questions. A great way to identify
audience questions is to do a test run
of your presentation. I like to call this
the "colleague test." Show your presentation or your data viz to a
colleague who has no previous knowledge of your work, and see what
questions they ask you. They might have
the same questions your real audience does. We talked about
feedback as a gift, so don't be afraid
to seek it out and ask colleagues for
their opinions. Let's say we ran through our presentation
with a colleague, we showed them our
data visualizations, then asked them what
questions they had. They tell us they
weren't sure how we were measuring health and happiness with our data in this slide. That's a great question. We can absolutely work that information into
our presentation. Sometimes the
questions asked during our colleague tests help us
revise our presentation. Other times, they
help us anticipate questions that might come
up during the presentation, even if we didn't
originally want to build that information into
the presentation itself. It helps to be prepared
to go into detail about your process, but only
if someone asks. Either way, their feedback can help take your presentation
to the next level. Next, it's helpful to start
with zero assumptions. Don't assume that
your audience is already familiar with jargon, acronyms, past events, or other necessary
background information. Try to explain these things in the presentation, and be ready to explain them
further if asked. When we showed our
presentation to our colleague, we accidentally assumed that they already knew how health and happiness were measured and left that out of our
original presentation. Now, let's look at
our second data viz. This graph is showing the relationship
between health, wealth, and happiness, but includes
GDP to measure the economy. We don't want to assume that our audience knows
what that means, so during the presentation, we'll want to include
a definition of GDP. In our speaker notes, we've added gross
domestic product: total monetary or market value of all the
finished goods and services produced within
a country's borders in a specific period of time. We'll fully explain what GDP means as soon as this
graphic comes up; that way, no one in our audience is confused
by that acronym. It helps to work
with your team to anticipate questions
and draft responses. Together, you'll
be able to include their perspectives and
coordinate answers so that everyone on your
team is prepared and ready to share their unique
insights with stakeholders. The team working on the
world happiness project with you probably have a lot of
great insights about the data, like how it was gathered or what it might be missing. Touch base with them so you don't miss out on
their perspective. Finally, be prepared
to consider and describe to your stakeholders any limitations in your data. You can do this by
critically analyzing the patterns you've discovered in your data for integrity. For example, could
the correlations found be explained
as coincidence? On top of that, use your understanding
of the strengths and weaknesses of the tools you use in your analysis to pinpoint any limitations
they may have introduced. While you probably don't have the power to predict the future, you can come pretty
close to predicting stakeholder and
audience questions by doing a few key things. Remember to focus on stakeholder expectations
and project goals, identify possible
questions with your team, review your presentation
with zero assumptions, and consider the
limitations of your data. Sometimes, though, your
audience might raise objections to the data before and after
your presentation. Coming up, we'll talk about the kind of
objections they might have and how you can
respond. See you next time.