Hello, and welcome to the intersection of
analytics and art, the place where data
analysts like me go to unleash the true potential of data with meaningful visuals, and a place where future
data analysts like you can go to learn
about how to do this. Welcome to Tableau, one of the many visualization
platforms that helps you do more with your data. When you turn data
into a visualization, you get to watch it transform
before your eyes into a meaningful story that people can connect
to and care about. Visualizations and Tableau
are dynamic, not static. As a quick refresher, dynamic visualizations
are interactive or change with time. The interactive nature
of these graphics means your audience has some
control over what they see, and you have
incredible flexibility with how you can create them. Let's create your own
visualization using a preloaded table
on Tableau Public. It's important to
note that there's different ways to create
visualizations in Tableau. Tableau has a few
different offerings, but for this course, we'll be using Tableau Public
in browser, which is free. One cool thing about
Tableau Public is the public gallery with data viz examples
from across the Web. For now, you'll be
working with one of these examples
from the gallery. You'll be copying over
data workbooks to your own profile to start creating and publishing
visualizations. To get started, sign in into
your Tableau Public account. You can check out an earlier
reading for more details. Then, to access the workbook, open the Google Career
Certificates page on Tableau Public by
clicking the link included in this video and
the reading from earlier. This opens a new tab that is still linked
to your account. There are a few
workbooks loaded up with different data sets that you can save to your own profile, these are a great starting point for creating your
own visualizations. There will also be a resource following this video that goes through how to download Tableau
and load your own data. But for now, let's use this
gallery as a starting point. Now, click to view the workbook titled Just the
Data-World Happiness. This brings up the data
table we use to help create the world
happiness data viz that's in the gallery. Next, click the button
in the top right corner. At this point, Tableau will
save a copy of this workbook to your own profile so that you can create your
own visualizations. Now that you're working
in your own copy, create a new worksheet so that you can build a
data viz from scratch. You'll click on worksheet
in the top of the menu, and then new worksheet. To start building your databases, add country as a detail
in the marks shelf. You can do this by dragging the country table over
to the detail icon. This sets up your viz as a world map to represent
the data in the table. Next, add Happiness Score to
color on the marks shelf. This applies a color
scheme to the viz, in this case shades of blue. This range of colors doesn't
offer a lot of contrast, especially for people with
color vision deficiencies. To adjust the colors, click the Color Menu
and click Edit Colors. Then, change the color. Change the color scheme to
green, blue, diverging, and check the box
for stepped color, which shows a clear
difference between the highest and lowest
happiness scores. Darker blue means a
higher happiness score, whereas darker green relates
to a lower happiness score. You can see this broken down in the scale in the
top right corner. With just a couple of steps, you have an interesting
visualization that shows happiness data in a way
that's easy to digest. The countries and
colors on the map are readable and offer
some great insight. But let's keep going
so you can explore more Tableau features to
refine your data viz. Since there are three years of data in the table we're using, you can filter the data
to only include 2016. Using multiple years can also be useful depending
on your objective. Regardless, you have lots
of options for filtering. We'll add year to
the filter shelf, then we'll choose to filter by year and we'll select 2016. Let's focus our visualization on one region, the European region. To do this, move your cursor to the left part of the map
to find the view toolbar. Use the tools in
the toolbar to pan to and zoom in on
the European region. This takes some
time and practice. Once you have a
pretty good view of Europe and its surrounding areas, use the shape tool
in the same toolbar to select as much of
Europe as you can. Since we're practicing, make your best guess if you're not sure which countries to include. If you are working
on a visualization that you are going to
share with others, you'd want to double check
that it was accurate. Hover your cursor over
one of the countries and it shows you data about
that specific country, as well as all the countries you've selected in the region. Then use a lasso select tool to select just a few
countries like this. Keep only, this applies
another filter, this time to the country you've included in your data viz. You'll notice that
the color scheme of these countries is updated. This reflects that
the range of colors is now only being applied
to these countries. Countries in this region
might have been in the same part of the range when compared to the
rest of the world, but now they're in different
parts because the data being measured is
specific to this region. To make your viz even better, add the happiness scores
a label in the map. You can now see a happiness score for each country on the map. This adds an extra layer
of detail to the viz to help make a connection
to the actual data. There's an option to
change the data type of this happiness score from
decimals to whole numbers. But when you do this, you lose the contrast of the values with the
decimals offer, so change it back to show the happiness score as a decimal. Now, to make it more interactive, let's add a filter with a slider. This will allow your
audience to filter by happiness score so they can
focus on fewer countries. But first, let's bring in more of the map
we started with. To do this, you
will need to remove the country filter we added earlier up in the filter shelf. Add happiness score to the filter shelf and
choose all values. Then, open the menu on the
Happiness Score filter, and choose Show Filter. This adds a slider to
the right of the map. Now try filtering to show Happiness Score of 6.0 or below. You can see how the filter changes which countries are now highlighted in your
viz. There you have it. Our first visualization based on data we brought in from
an external source. Pretty powerful, right? We'll save our viz so now we can admire it any
time we want to, and maybe even practice using
the Tableau tools with it. It's always important
to save your work, but make sure not to include any personal information
in your file name. All the data viz created
in Tableau Public is visible to, well, the public. You can also keep your
visualizations hidden by going to your profile page
and checking out the eye icon in the upper
right corner of the viz. If the icon is selected, you'll see the eye with
a slash through it on your viz and the viz will
remain hidden. It's up to you. But lots of data viz created by users like you are viewable. In fact, you can easily check them by searching
on Tableau Public. Then, you can search for
any kind of data viz, including world happiness
visualizations. You'll come across all types of data viz with many
advanced settings. Some of these
examples you'll find in the gallery are
stronger than others. Coming up, we'll talk about effective data visualizations and some ways you can make your data viz work even
stronger. See you soon.