Businesses everywhere know the power
of using data to solve problems and achieve goals. But all the data in the world won't get
you anywhere if your stakeholders can't understand it or if they can't stay
focused on what you're telling them. So you want to create presentations
that are logically organized, interesting, and
communicate your key messages clearly. An effective presentation supports
your narrative by making it more interesting than words alone. It starts with how you want to
organize your data insights. The narrative you share with your
stakeholders needs characters, a setting, a plot, a big reveal, and an "aha
moment," just like any other story. The characters are the people
affected by your story. This could be your stakeholders,
customers, clients, and others. When adding information about
your characters to your story, you have a great opportunity to include
a personal account and bring more human context to the facts that the data has
revealed—think about why they care. Next up is a setting,
which describes what's going on, how often it's happening, what tasks
are involved, and other background information about the data project
that describes the current situation. The plot, sometimes called the conflict, is what
creates tension in the current situation. This could be a challenge from
a competitor, an inefficient process that needs to be fixed, or a new opportunity
that the company just can't pass up. This complication of the current situation
should reveal the problem your analysis is solving and
compel the characters to act. The big reveal, or resolution, is how the data has shown
that you can solve the problem the characters are facing by becoming
more competitive, improving a process, inventing a new system, or whatever the
ultimate goal of your data project may be. Finally, your "aha moment" is when
you share your recommendations and explain why you think they'll
help your company be successful. When I'm working on a presentation,
this is where I like to start, too. Using these basic elements to outline
your presentation could be a great place to start, and they can help you organize
your findings into a clear story. And once you decided on these
five key parts of your story, it's time to think about how to pair
your narrative with interesting visuals because as you're learning, an
interesting and persuasive data story needs interesting
and persuasive visuals. Coming up, you'll learn even more about how
to be an expert data storyteller.