Hey there, it's
great to see how far you've come in this Google
Data Analytics certificate. First of, I want to say
congrats on your achievement. Second, welcome to
your next course. It's all about the art of data storytelling
through visualization. As a data analyst, you can do all the
necessary work of planning, collecting, cleaning,
and analysis. But you also need to show
stakeholders what your data means in a compelling
way using visuals. We're here to show
you how that's done. With my experience as Director
of Analytics at Google, I hope I'll be a
pretty good guide. My name's Kevin, and I'll be your instructor
for this course. This part of your training
is particularly meaningful to me because I love
data storytelling. I can't think of anything in today's business world
that's more vibrant, more exciting, and
more rewarding. With the amount of data
we have around us, data analytics plays a key role in pretty much every
part of business. In my opinion, there isn't a skill that's
more important to you as an analyst than being
able to effectively communicate the stories you want to covered to stakeholders. Stakeholders usually
lack the time, access to data, or expertise needed to find those
stories by themselves. That's why we'll
focus on visualizing data to help you better
share Data Stories. Which means we're now at the share phase of the
data analysis process. We'll start with
the basic concepts of visualization and why visualizing your analysis is such an important part
of Data Analytics. From there, we'll discuss
how to plan for and start building effective
visualizations that are inclusive, accessible, and consider
the audience first. Afterwards, we'll explore
one possible tool you can use for data
visualization, Tableau. Tableau helps us create
visualizations from our analysis so that we can share our findings
more effectively. We'll show you how
data visualizations, including visual dashboards, can help bring your data to life. We'll also explore how you
can use visualizations in your presentations
and slide shows to continue telling
a story with data. We'll discuss the art and science behind effective
presentations. Finally, you'll learn
how to anticipate and answer questions
from stakeholders and respond to their feedback. Throughout the course, I'll guide you through what I think is the most exciting part of
the data analysis process. By the end, you'll have
everything you need to plan, create, and present an effective and compelling
data visualization. Now that we've gotten to
know each other little, it's time to get down
to business. Coming up, we'll talk a bit about the
history of data visualization and why visualizations
mattered so much today. We'll also discuss the methods for using imagery effectively and what you can do
to make the most out of your visuals.
See you there.