Hey, great to have you back,
let's dive back in. Over 1 billion people in
the world have a disability. That's more than the populations
of the United States, Canada, France, Italy, Japan,
Mexico, and Brazil combined. Before you design a data viz,
it's important to keep that fact in mind. Not everyone has the same abilities, and people take in information
in lots of different ways. You might have a viewer who's deaf or
hard of hearing and relies on captions, or someone who's color blind might look to
specific labeling for more description. We've covered a lot of ways to make a data
visualization beautiful and informative. And now it's time to take that knowledge
and make it accessible to everyone, including those with disabilities. Accessibility can be defined
a number of different ways. Right from the start, there's a few ways you can incorporate
accessibility in your data visualization. You'll just have to think
a little differently, it helps to label data directly instead
of relying exclusively on legends, which require color interpretation and
more effort by the viewer to understand. This can also just make it a faster read
for those with or without disabilities. Check out this data viz,
the colors make it challenging to read and the legend is confusing. Now, if we just remove the legend and
add in data labels, bam, you've got a clearer presentation. Another way to make your visualizations
more accessible is to provide text alternatives, so that it can be
changed into other forms people need, such as large print, braille, or speech. Alternative text provides a textual
alternative to non-text content. It allows the content and function of
the image to be accessible to those with visual or certain cognitive disabilities. Here's an example that shows
additional text describing the chart. And speaking of text,
you can make data from charts and diagrams available in a text-based format
through an export to Sheets or Excel. You can also make it easier for people to see and hear content by
separating foreground from background. Using bright colors, that contrast against the background
can help those with poor visibility, whether permanently or temporarily
clearly see the information conveyed. Another option is to avoid relying
solely on color to convey information, and instead distinguished with
different textures and shapes. Another general rule is to avoid over
complicating data visualizations. Overly complicated data
visualizations turn off most audiences because they can't figure out where and
what to focus on. That's why breaking down data into
simple visualizations is key. A common mistake is including too much
information in a single piece, or including long chunks, of text or too
much information and graphs and charts. This can defeat the whole
purpose of your visualization, making it impossible to
understand at first glance. Ultimately, designing with an
accessibility mindset means thinking about your audience ahead of time. Focusing on simple, easy to understand
visuals, and most importantly, creating alternative ways for your audience to
access and interact with your data. And when you pay attention to these
details, we can find solutions that make data visualizations more effective for
everyone. So now you completed your first course
of exploration of data visualization. You've discovered the importance of
creating data viz that cater to your audience while keeping
focus on the objective. You learn different ways to brainstorm and
plan your visualizations, and how to choose the best charts
to meet that objective. And you also learned how to
incorporate elements of science and even philosophy into your visualizations. Coming up we'll check out how to
take all of these learnings and apply them in Tableau. You'll get to see how this data
visualization tool makes your data viz work more efficient and effective. See you soon.