Hey, good to see you again. One of my favorite aspects of data
visualizations is how creative it lets me be. You might remember me saying earlier
that data viz the intersection of art and analytics, and it really is. I'm here to help you find your inner kid
with a crayon from turning messy charts into effective ones to making your visuals
more accessible to people who have color vision deficiencies. It's time to explore how your creativity
can help you get the most out of your data. Jump right in by signing
into your Tableau account, we'll return to our world Happiness Data
in the Google Career Certificates Page. Click the link included in this
video to Open the gallery, now click to view the workbook titled
Just the Data: World Happiness. We use the same workbook in the earlier
video about getting started with Tableau. Let's click up
here to get started. Let's say we want to use this data
in this table to figure out what the biggest contributors to
a country's happiness score are. We'll start by digging into the
relationship between happiness scores and the other country measures
to see what we can find. To start, create a new worksheet to
build your own database from scratch, you'll click on worksheet and
then new worksheet. Since our data has three years of values,
let's filter to 2016. To do this, add year to
the filter shelf and choose 2016. Add happiness score to the rows shelf. Then add economy GDP per
capita to the column shelf. Next drag and
drop country to the detail section, this creates a separate circle or
data point for each country. You might notice that where
the economy scores higher, the happiness scores also higher. To make this trend easier to see,
let's add a trend line. Now duplicate this sheet so that all
of your formatting stays the same. In the duplicate sheet replace
economy GDP per capita with another measure such as family. Drag the family table into
the column shelf to replace economy. We'll rename our original tab economy. And this new tab family, so that we can easily recognize what
they show and find them when we need. Try doing this for more of the measures. Now let's show what multiple
visualizations on a single dashboard look like, so you can more easily
see the relationship between them. Drag your visualizations, which are now
listed on the left tables column one at a time to populate the dashboard. They could be arranged in different ways, take note of which trend lines
have the steepest incline. Those are the ones with the strongest
relationship, the happiness score. Each chart should have easily understood
purpose that's immediately clear to your audience, and that's just what this does. You can also add a companion table, which
shows the same data in a different way in case people in your
audience prefer tables. In my experience, some stakeholders
prefer to see their data in spreadsheets. We've been spending a lot of
time using one data source, but you'll likely end up juggling more than
one data set at a time as an analyst. Coming up, you'll have the option to learn
more about combining multiple data sources in Tableau bye for now.