[MUSIC]
Data Analytics is the collection and analysis and then use of data to
tell stories, using charts and visualizations, so
that businesses can make better decisions. So I've always loved numbers and
have always enjoyed math and calculus and those sorts of things. So data came really easy to me. I was working at a consultancy before and
using lots of numbers, and I enjoyed it for sure. But it wasn't until I worked at
an advertising agency where I saw the creative expression of numbers and
how data could drive that creativity. That it really all fell into place for
me and I realized that doing analytics in a marketing and in an advertising
setting was exactly what I wanted to do. And I found that I just really enjoyed
when we put those two things together. I think the visuals that come
out of data analysis and data analytics are really beautiful,
but what is even more interesting for me are the stories behind them. If you look at a big block of text or
a big block of numbers, those stories are in there, but
they really have to be found. And so it takes certain skill
to pull those things out. And I find that skill, that analysis
really exciting and interesting. But it ultimately then ends
in a beautiful visualization, which I find very gratifying. There are great data
visualization thinkers, and you see these visuals all over the place. You can find inspiration from
looking at news outlets today and seeing the visuals that they present and
how they tell stories that way. Visualizations have become so important
that you can find them everywhere, and you could take great
inspiration from that. But I also take inspiration from
unlikely sources like photography and art and others and seeing how composition
is created, how color is used. I think that's really important. And I try hard to bring
those sorts of elements and those sorts of influences into
the visualizations I create. So I know this course is pretty intense. We're throwing a lot at you. Your brain is probably overloaded. You're probably fried. Just stick with it. It is all going to start to
piece together and make sense. The biggest thing that I think you can
think of is just how important these skills really are. This is the new way of doing business,
involving data, using the analytics tools and techniques that we're
talking about to make decisions. So there's a great big reward waiting for
you at the end of this course. I'm Kevin. I'm director of analytics here at Google. [SOUND]