Have you ever been
driving a car when one of the warning lights on the
dashboard suddenly comes on? Maybe the gas gauge starts blinking because you're
getting low on fuel. It's handy when you have that
alert right in front of you, clearly showing you that you need to pay attention
to your gas level. Can you imagine if cars
didn't have dashboards? We'd never know if we were
about to run out of gas. We'd have no idea if
our tire pressure was low or if it was time
for an oil change. Without dashboards, if our cars started
acting differently, we'd have to pull
out the user manual, sift through all that
information inside, and try to figure out
the problem ourselves. Car dashboards make it easy for drivers to understand
and respond to any issues with their
vehicles because they're constantly tracking and
analyzing the car status. But as you've been learning, dashboards aren't just for cars. Companies also use them
to share information, get people engaged with
business plans and goals, and uncover potential problems. Just like a car's dashboard, data analytics
dashboards take tons of information and
bring it to life in a clear, visually-interesting way. This is extremely important when telling a story with data, which is why it's a
big part of number two in our three data
storytelling steps. You've learned that
a dashboard is a tool that organizes
information from multiple data sets into one central location
for tracking, analysis, and simple
visualization through tables,
charts, and graphs. Dashboards do this by constantly monitoring live incoming data. As we've been discussing, you can make dashboards that are specifically designed to
speak to your stakeholders. You can think about
who will be looking at the data and what
they need from it and how often they'll use it. Then you can make
a dashboard with the perfect information
just for them. This is helpful
because people can get confused and distracted when they're presented
with too much data. A dashboard keeps things neat and tidy and easy to understand. When designing a dashboard, it's best to start simple with just the most
important data points, and if later on you discover
something's missing, you can always go back and tweak your dashboard or
create a new one. An important part
of dashboard design is the placement or
layout of your charts, graphs, and other visuals. These elements need
to be cohesive, which means they're
balanced and make good use of the space
on the dashboard. After you decide what information should be on your dashboard, you might need to
resize and reorganize it so it works better
for your users. One option in Tableau is choosing between a vertical or
horizontal layout. A vertical layout
adjusts the height. A horizontal layout
resizes the width of the views and
objects it contains. Also, as you can see here, evenly distributing the
items within your layout helps create a clear and
organized data visual. You can select either
tiled or floating layouts. Tiled items are part of
a single-layer grid that automatically resizes based on the overall dashboard size. Floating items can be
layered over other objects. In this example, the map and scatter plots are tiled—they
don't overlap. This really helps make clear
what the data is all about, which is valuable
because the majority of people in the world
are visual learners—they process information
based on what they see. That's why sharing
your dashboards with stakeholders is such
a valuable practice. Now there's something important to keep in mind about that. Sharing dashboards with others likely means that you'll lose
control of the narrative; in other words, you
won't be there to tell the story of your data and
share your key messages. Dashboards put storytelling power in the hands of the viewer. That means they'll craft their own narrative and
draw their own conclusions, but don't let that
scare you away from being collaborative and open. Just understand the risks that come with sharing
your dashboards. After all, sharing
information and resources means that
you'll have more people working on the solution to a big problem or coming up
with that next big idea. This leads to more
connections, which can result in really exciting new
practices and innovations.