Hello again. We've learned
data visualizations are designed to help an audience
process information quickly and memorably. You might remember the 5-second
rule we covered earlier. Within the first five seconds of seeing a data visualization, your audience should understand exactly what you're
trying to convey. Five seconds might
seem like a flash, but adding in descriptive
wording can really help your audience interpret and understand the data
in the right way. Your audience will
be less likely to have questions about what you're sharing if you add headlines,
subtitles, and labels. One of the easiest ways
to highlight key data in your data viz, is
through headlines. A headline is a line of words
printed in large letters at the top of the visualization to communicate what data
is being presented. It's the attention-grabber
that makes your audience want to read more. Take charts, for example. A chart without a headline is like a report without a title. You want to make it easy to understand what
your chart's about. Be sure to use clear,
concise language, explaining all information
as plainly as possible. Try to avoid using
abbreviations or acronyms, even if you think they're
common knowledge. The typography and placement of the headline is important too. It's best to keep it simple. Make it bold or a few
sizes larger than the rest of the text and place it directly
above the chart, aligned to the left. Then, explain your data viz
even further with a subtitle. A subtitle supports the headline by adding more context
and description. Use a font style that
matches the rest of the charts elements and place the subtitle directly
underneath the headline. Now, let's talk about labels. Earlier, we mentioned Dona Wong, a visual journalist who's
well known for sharing guidelines on making
data viz more effective. She makes a very strong
case for using labels directly on the data instead
of relying on legends. This is because lots of charts use different visual
properties like colors or shapes to represent
different values of data. A legend or key identifies the meaning
of various elements in a data visualization
and can be used as an alternative to
labeling data directly. Direct labeling like this keeps
your audience's attention fixed on your graphic and helps them identify data quickly. While legends force the
audience to do more work, because a legend is positioned away from
the chart's data. The truth is, the more support
we provide our audience, the less work they
have to do trying to understand what the
data is trying to say, and the faster our story
will make an impact. Now that we've
covered how to make a data viz as
effective as possible, next up, we'll figure
out how to make it accessible to all.
See you in a bit.