Welcome back. When you want to communicate
something to others, a great story can help you
reach people's hearts and minds and make them more open
to what you have to say. In other words, stories
make people care. As you learned before, the first of the three data storytelling steps teach us that for a story
to be successful, you need to focus
on who's listening. Data analysts do this by making sure that they're
engaging their audience. That's what we'll
explore together now. First, you need to
know your audience. Think back to the
example of telling someone a joke they've
heard many times before and expecting
them to laugh at the punchline. Not likely. To get the response
you're seeking, you've got to understand your
audience's point of view. That means thinking about how your data project
might affect them. It helps to ask yourself
a few questions. What role does this
audience play? What is their stake
in the project? What do they hope to get from the data insights I deliver? Let's say you're analyzing readership data from
customers to help a magazine publisher
decide if they should switch from quarterly
to monthly issues. If your stakeholder audience includes people from
the printing company, they're going to care
because the change means they have to order paper
and ink more frequently. They also might need to assign more staff members
to the project. Or if you're stakeholders include the magazine
authors and editors, you'll want to keep in mind that your recommendations might
change the way they work. For instance, they
might need to write and edit stories at a faster
pace than they're used to. Once you've considered the
answers to those questions, it's time to choose
your primary message. Every single part of your story flows from this one key point, so it's got to be
clear and direct. With that in mind, let's think about
the key message for the data project about
our pretend magazine. Maybe the readership data
from customers shows that print magazine subscriptions have been going down recently. You discover in survey
data that this is mainly because readers feel
the information is outdated, so this finding suggests that readers would
probably appreciate a publication cycle that gets the information into their hands more often. But that's not all. Your reader survey
data also shows that readers prefer shorter
articles with quick takeaways. The data is generating a lot
of possible decision points. The volume and variety
of information in front of you may
feel challenging. To get the key message, you'll need to take
a few steps back and pinpoint only the
most useful pieces. Not every piece of data is relevant to the questions
you're trying to answer. A big part of being a
data analyst is knowing how to eliminate the
less important details. One way to do this is with
something called spotlighting. Spotlighting is scanning
through the data to quickly identify the
most important insights. There are many ways to spotlight, but lots of data analysts like to use sticky notes
on a whiteboard, like how archaeologists
make sense of the artifacts they
discover in a dig. To do this, you write each insight from your
analysis on a piece of paper, spread them out, and display them on a whiteboard.
Then you examine it. It's important not to get bogged down in every tiny detail. Instead, look for broad
universal ideas and messages. Try to find ideas or concepts that keep popping
up again and again or numbers and words
that are repeated often. Maybe you're finding
things that look like they're connecting
or forming patterns. Highlight these items or group them together on your whiteboard. Next, explore your discoveries. Find the meaning
behind the numbers. The idea is to identify which insights are
most likely to help solve your business problem or give you the answers
you've been seeking. This is how spotlighting can lead you to your key message. Remember to keep your key
message clear and concise, as an overly-long message
like this one shown on screen has less chance of conveying the most
important conclusion. Here's a clear,
concise message that's likely to engage your audience because it's short
and to the point. Of course, no matter
how much time and effort you put into
studying your audience, you can't predict exactly how they'll react to
your recommendations. But if you follow the
steps we're discussing, you'll be much more likely
to have good results. In an upcoming video, you'll learn how to
deal with situations that don't go quite
according to plan. That's okay. It
happens to all of us.