Before, I shared how data analysis,
helped a company figure out, where to advertise its services. An important part of this process,
was strong problem solving skills. As a data analyst, you will find that
problems are at the center of what you do, every single day, but that's a good thing. Think of problems as opportunities to put
your skills to work and find creative and insightful solutions. Problems can be large or
small, simple or complex. No problem is like another and they all
require a slightly different approach. But the first step is always the same: understanding what kind of problem
you are trying to solve. And that is what we
are going to talk about now. Data analysts
work with six basic problem types: making predictions, categorizing things,
spotting something unusual, identifying themes, discovering
connections and finding patterns. Think back to a real-world
example from the previous video. In that example Anywhere Gaming Repair
wanted to figure out how to bring in new customers. So the problem was how to determine
the best advertising method for Anywhere Gaming Repair's target audience. To help solve this problem, the company used data to envision what
would happen if it advertised in different places. Now, nobody can see the future. But the data helped them make an informed
decision about how things would likely work out. So their problem type
was making predictions. Now, let's think about the second
problem type, categorizing things. Here's an example of a problem
that involves categorization. Let's say a business wants to improve
its customer satisfaction levels. Data analysts could review recorded
calls to the company's customer service department. And evaluate the satisfaction
level of each caller. They could identify certain keywords or phrases that come up
during the phone calls. And then assign them to
categories such as politeness, satisfaction, dissatisfaction,
empathy, and more. Categorizing these keywords gives us
data that lets the company identify top- performing customer
service representatives and those who might need more training. This leads to happier customers and
higher customer service scores. Okay, now let's talk about a problem
that involves finding something unusual. Some of you may have a smartwatch. My favorite app is for health tracking. These apps can help people stay healthy by
collecting data such as their heart rate, sleep patterns,
exercise routine, and much more. There are many stories out there
about health apps actually saving people's lives. One is about a woman who was young,
athletic, and had no previous medical problems. One night she heard
a beep on her smartwatch. A notification said her
heart rate had spiked. Now in this example,
think of the watch as a data analyst. The watch was collecting and
analyzing health data. So when her resting heartbeat rate
was suddenly 120 beats per minute, the watch spotted something unusual.
Because according to its data, the rate was normally around 70. Thanks to the data her smartwatch gave
her the woman went to the hospital and discovered she had a condition which could have led to life-threatening
complications if she hadn't gotten medical help. Now let's move on to the next type
of problem: identifying themes. We see a lot of examples of this
in the user experience field. User experience designers study and work
to improve the interactions people have with products they use every day, like
apps, websites, and even coffee makers. Let's say a user experience
designer wants to see what customers think about the coffeemaker
his company manufactures. This business collects anonymous
survey data from users, which can be used to answer this question. But first, to make sense of it all. He will need to find themes that
represent the most valuable data. Especially information he can use to
make the user experience even better. So the problem that user experience
designer's company faces is how to improve the user experience for its coffeemakers. The process here is kind of like
finding categories for the keywords and phrases in customer service conversations. But identifying themes goes even
further by grouping each insight into a broader theme. Then the designer can pinpoint
the themes that are most common. In this case, he learned users often couldn't tell
if the coffee maker was on or off. He ended up optimizing the design
with improved placement and lighting for the on off button. Leading to product improvement and
happy users. Now we come to the problem
of discovering connections. This example is from
the transportation industry, and uses something called
third-party logistics. Third-party logistics partners help
businesses ship products when they don't have their own trucks, planes or ships. A common problem these partners face is
figuring out how to reduce wait time. Wait time happens when a truck driver from
a third party logistics provider arrives to pick up a shipment, but it's not ready. So she has to wait. That costs both company time and money. And it stops the trucks from getting back
on the road to make more deliveries. So how can they solve this? Well, by sharing data,
the partner companies can view each other's timelines and
see what's causing shipments to run late. Then they can figure out how to
avoid those problems in the future. So a problem for one business doesn't
cause a negative impact for the other. For example,
if shipments are running late because one company only delivers Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays, and the other company only
delivers Tuesdays and Thursdays, then companies can adjust to
do deliveries on the same day to reduce waiting time for customers. All right, we've come to our final
problem type, finding patterns. Oil and gas companies are constantly working to
keep their machines running properly. So the problem is how to stop
machines from breaking down. One way data analysts can
do this is by looking at patterns in the company's
historical data. For example,
they could investigate how and when a particular machine
broke down in the past and then generate insights
into what led to the breakage. In this case, the company saw patterns
indicating that machines began breaking down at faster rates when maintenance
wasn't kept up in 15-day cycles. They can then keep track
of current conditions and intervene if any of these
issues happen again. You've now learned the six basic problem
types data analysts typically face. As a future data analyst, this is going
to be valuable knowledge for your career.