Hello there. I have to say, getting a package delivered
to you is one of life's simple pleasures. It doesn't matter if it's a surprise
package or something you ordered yourself. It's exciting to open your package
to discover what's inside. No wonder those unboxing videos
on YouTube are so popular. Well, R has a different kind of
package that R users can open. These packages are units
of reproducible R code, and they make it easier to keep track of code. They're created by members of the R
community to keep track of the R functions that they write and reuse. These community members might then make
the packages available to other users. It's one of the great things about
being part of this community. Packages in R include
reusable R functions and documentation about the functions,
including how to use them. They also contain sample datasets
and tests for checking your code to make sure
it does what you want it to do. By default, R includes a set of packages
called Base R that are available to use in RStudio when you start
your first programming session. There's also recommended packages
that are loaded but not installed. Before using functions from
one of these packages, you'd have to load it with a library
command like library boot, for example. Let's find out which packages we already
have in RStudio will work in our console instead of a script for now because we're practicing and
don't need to save this code for later. To check out our packages
we'll just run the command installed.packages and there's our list. Let's focus on the package and
priority columns. The package column gives the name of
the package like cluster or graphics. The priority column tells us what's
needed to use functions from the package. If you come across the word
"base" in the priority column, then the package is already installed and
loaded. You can use all of the functions of that
package as soon as you open RStudio. If you find the word "recommended," then
the package is installed but not loaded. You'll also notice a list of packages in
the bottom-right part of our workspace. This list includes a brief
description of each package. To load class and other uninstalled
packages, we'll need to use the library function
followed by the name of the package. And now the class package
has a check next to it, so it's been successfully loaded for use. If you want to learn even more
about your loaded packages, you can click on their
names in the packages tab. This opens the help tab and shows topics
related to the package you selected. You can also use the help function in
your programming to call up the help tab. While the pre-installed packages
give you tons of useful functions, there's even more packages that will
further expand your programming abilities. You can find thousands of R packages
just by doing an online search. One of the most commonly used
sources of packages is CRAN. CRAN stands for
Comprehensive R Archives Network. It's an online archive with R packages,
source code, manuals and documentation. When you start working with R, you'll be able to do your own searches
to find packages in CRAN or elsewhere. It's almost always easier to just search
with your favorite search engine, though. So packages are a pretty
big part of using R. They give you most of what you need to
complete your programming throughout the data analysis process. Who knows! You might even turn your own
code into packages for others to use. Up next we'll keep unpacking R packages. See you soon.