Hi again. As a data analyst, you'll need to refer to your analysis at a
moment's notice. You might need to share it
with your fellow team members or a stakeholder might ask
about one of your conclusions. Documenting your work
makes it easy to quickly share your
analysis with anyone, and that's where R
Markdown comes in. Earlier, we learned
that R Markdown is a file format for making
dynamic documents with R. R Markdown lets you create a record of your analysis and
conclusions in a document. It ties together your code and your report so you can share
every step of your analysis. The best part is, you don't even have to leave
RStudio to do this. This document will help
stakeholders and team members understand what you did in your analysis to reach
your conclusions. Their feedback will also help
you improve your analysis. R Markdown documents are
written in Markdown. Markdown is a syntax for
formatting plain text files. Using Markdown makes it easier to write and format text
in your document. Markdown is also easy
to read and to learn. For example, if you want to italicize a word or
phrase in Markdown, just add a single underscore or asterisk right before
and after the word. When you create a
report of the document, the Markdown formatting
is no longer visible, just the word or
phrase in italics. We'll show you more
formatting options soon, but they're all similar
to this example. Basically, they're
simple enough to let you focus on descriptions
and explanations of your analysis without having to think too much about
how to format them. Besides text, R Markdown also includes an interactive
option called an R Notebook that lets users run your code and show the graphs and charts that
visualize the code. Any R Markdown document
can be used as a notebook. This creates a clear
overall picture of your analysis and conclusions. R Markdown lets you convert your files into lots of
different formats too. You can create HTML, PDF, and Word documents, or you can convert to a slide
presentation or dashboard. Having these options
makes it easy to share the same analysis in
a variety of ways, depending on your audience. The Markdown language was originally designed
for HTML output. HTML is the set of markup symbols and codes
used to create a web page. R Markdown has the most available
features for this format, but you can get good results
in any of the formats. While R Markdown is a great way to record and share
your analysis, there are other options too. Notebooks like Jupyter, Kaggle, and Google Colab do a lot of the same things as an
R Markdown notebook, including the
interactive elements. You'll read more about these
options in a little bit. Coming up, we'll create
an R Markdown document. You'll get to see this
effective analysis tool in action. See you soon.