Welcome back. So far, we've started cleaning and
now working with data in R. Now, let's talk about
how to transform data. Sometimes you need to be able to break
up a variable across multiple columns or combine existing columns, or
even add new values to your data frame. Coming up, we'll use the separate, unite and mutate functions
to transform our data in R. Luckily, the packages already
downloaded into our library have some tools we can
use to do just that. Let's open RStudio Cloud and
check them out. To start, we'll create a
data frame from scratch. For this example, we'll create
a standard data frame, so that we can test out other functions. But you could also make a tribble here
since we're manually inputting the data. You'll learn more about
tribbles in a reading. For our dataset, we are going to copy and paste some data to create
our own data frame. If you want to use the same data to follow
along, check out the earlier reading. Our data contains employee information,
including names and job titles. You can just copy it in. We can then name the data frame employee,
indicate the column names as id, name and job title, and
print the whole data frame. Right now, the first and
last names are combined into one column. We can use the separate function to
split these into separate columns. We'll start with separate, and then
the data frame we want to work with and the column we'd like to separate. Then we'll add what we'd like
to split the name column into. We'll just name these new columns,
first name and last name. And finally, we'll tell R to separate
the name column at the first blank space. When we run this, it will build us new
columns for the first and last names. The separate function
has a partner, unite. The unite function allows us
to merge columns together. Basically, it does
the opposite of separate. Let's say we're working with the version
of this data frame with two name columns, and we want to combine them. We'll copy in this data as well. Our unite statement's
a lot like our separate. We'll start with unite and indicate
the data frame we're referring to. Then, we'll name the column we're
combining first name and last name in. And then we'll say which columns we're
combining. No quotation marks needed here. And finally, we can include
a space that separates them. And when we run that,
those two columns are combined. In addition to separating and
merging columns, we can also create new variables in our
data frame using the mutate function. We worked with mutate a little bit
before to clean and organize our data. But mutate can also be used to
add columns with calculations. Let's go back to our penguin dataset. Right now, the body mass column
is measured in grams. Maybe we want to add
a column with kilograms. To do that, we'll use mutate to perform
the conversion and add a new column. And it will return a tibble
with our new column. You can make calculations on multiple
new variables by adding a comma. Let's add a column converting the flipper length too. Now, we've learned how to transform
existing data in our tables and how to create new variables. Separate, unite and mutate are some basic
functions that we'll keep building on, and you might discover new ways to
use them while you're practicing too. Coming up, we'll talk more about
summarizing data frames and how to address bias. I'll see you soon