Hey, welcome back. Before we can start cleaning and
organizing our data or even check it for bias, we need to
get our data into a usable format. This is where data frames come in. You might remember we talked a little
bit about data frames before. In this video, we'll learn more about what
data frames are and how you can use them. Let's get started. First, let's talk about
what a data frame is. A data frame is a collection of columns. It's a lot like a spreadsheet or
a SQL table. Here's an example of a data frame in R. It's a lot like other tables we've
worked with throughout this program. There's column names and
rows and cells with data. The columns contain one variable, and the rows have a set of values
that match each column. We use data frames for
a lot of the same reasons as tables too. They help summarize data and put it into
a format that's easy to read and use. There's some things to know about
data frames before working with them. We'll learn more about data frames
throughout this program, but this is a great starting point. First, columns should be named. Using
empty column names can create problems with your results later on. Let's think back to our example. Each of the columns are named based
on the variable they represent. There's carat, cut, color, clarity, depth. All of these columns represent
data about the diamonds. Next, it's important to know that
the data stored in your data frame can be many different types,
like numeric, factor, or character. Often data frames contain dates,
time stamps and logical vectors. Finally, each column should contain
the same number of data items, even if some of those
data items are missing. Data frames are foundational. Now let's talk about tibbles. In the tidyverse,
tibbles are like streamlined data frames. They make working with data easier, but they're a little different
from standard data frames. First, tibbles never change
the data types of the inputs. They won't change your strings
to factors or anything else. You can make more changes to base data
frames, but tibbles are easier to use. This saves time because you won't
have to do as much cleaning or changing data types in tibbles. Tibbles also never change
the names of your variables, and they never create row names. Finally, tibbles make
printing in R easier. They won't accidentally overload your
console because they're automatically set to pull up only the first 10 rows and
as many columns as fit on screen. Super useful when you're working
with large sets of data. Data frames and tibbles are the building
blocks for analysis in R so having set standards for how they're
built and dealt with is pretty important. If we all have the same understanding
of what a data frame is, we can communicate more effectively. It's like we're all
speaking the same language. It's also just a lot more practical. We need to be able to do things
like define columns and review code easily in R. These characteristics make it
easier to share your data and reproduce your analysis. Consistent data structures like data
frames make it easier to operate on an entire dataset. Tidy data refers to the principles that
make data structures meaningful and easy to understand. It's a way of standardizing
the organization of data within R. These standards are pretty
straightforward. Variables are organized into columns. Observations are organized into rows and
each value must have its own cell. Now that you know a little more about
data frames, let's start using them. Coming up, I'll teach you
how to create data frames, add data to them and expand them. Bye for now.