Hey, welcome back. By now, you've already learned
the importance of fair, unbiased data in data analysis. In R, we can actually
quantify bias by comparing the actual outcome of our data with the
predicted outcome. There's a pretty complicated statistical explanation
behind this. But with the bias function in R, we don't have to perform
this calculation by hand. Basically, the bias function
finds the average amount that the actual outcome is greater than the
predicted outcome. It's included in the
SimDesign package. It's helpful to install that
and practice on your own. If the model is unbiased, the outcome should be
pretty close to zero. A high result means that
your data might be biased. A good thing to know
before you analyze it. Let's say we're working with
a local weather channel to determine if their whether
predictions are biased. First, we'll need to install and load a package called SimDesign. We'll use the bias
function to compare forecasted temperatures
with actual temperatures. For this example, we'll just take a small sample of our weather
data and input them here. We'll label this the actual temp. Then we'll put in the prediction and then the bias function. When we run this, we can find out
that the result is 0.71. That's pretty high. The predictions seem biased
towards lower temperatures, which means they aren't as
accurate as they could be. Now that the local
weather channel knows, they can find the
problem in their system that's causing the
biased predictions. This doesn't mean
their predictions will be perfect all the time, but they'll be more
accurate overall. That's it for now. We've covered a lot here. We learned about how
to create data frames. We got to try out some basic
data-cleaning functions. We got a little preview
of how data viz in R can help us better
understand our data. Finally, we learned how
to use the bias function. I've still got a lot more
I want to tell you about R. And if the data visualizations we
created in this module were exciting for you, I've got great news. Coming up, we'll learn all about data viz in R. But first, you've got a weekly
challenge to tackle. I know you're going to do great. If you want to review
any of the material that we've covered in these
videos, feel free. This might be the first
time you've encountered R, so it's a great opportunity
to practice something new. Your code might throw up
some errors at first. That's just part of writing code. It's okay to try things out
and make some mistakes. Learning from our
mistakes is how we grow. I'll see you afterwards for
our next adventure in R.