Great to have you back. Earlier, we talked about summarizing data
in R, and we even used the summarize function to calculate the mean for
one of our penguin data variables. Now we'll work with a very famous
data example, Anscombe's Quartet. Anscombe's Quartet has four datasets that
have nearly identical summary statistics, but those summary statistics
might be misleading. Data visualizations, especially for
datasets like these, are so important. They help us discover things in our
data that would otherwise remain hidden. Plus, you'll discover some of the ways
R can create awesome visualizations. Let's install the packages. This may take a few minutes to load. Okay, let's load
the Anscombe's Quartet data now, When we view this data,
we notice that there's four sets of x and y axes in the data frame. That's the quartet. Data can be summarized by
different statistical measures. We'll get a summary of
each set with the mean, standard deviation and correlation for
each of these datasets. We'll start by indicating that we
want to group our data by set. Then we'll input our summarize function. When we run this, we'll get a summary
of these statistical measures. In our summary tibble,
we can check the mean. The mean for x in each dataset is 9. And the mean for y is 7.5. Standard deviation can help us understand
the range of values in a data set. And the standard deviation for x and y in every set in the quartet is the same, 3.32 and 2.3. Finally, we've got our correlation, which shows us how strong the relationship
between two variables is. Here, it looks like
the correlation between x and y in all four sets is around 0.816 So based on the summaries we created
with our statistical measures, these datasets are identical. But sometimes just looking at
the summarized data can be misleading. Let's put together some simple graphs
to help us visualize this data, and check if the datasets
are actually identical. You'll learn more about plotting
data in R later, but for now, we'll just get a quick idea
of how this data appears. Check it out. These four datasets appear quite
different when we visualize them. If we had just gone with
the statistical summaries, we never would have known that this
data is actually really different. I want to show you one more really
cool thing, the datasauRus package. The data source creates plots with
the Anscombe data in different shapes, but let's run it to see that for
ourselves. First, you'll start off with
installing and loading the package. Then we'll create a chart. It's okay if these
commands seem complicated. You'll be creating your own plot soon. This is just a sneak peek at how R can
help you create data visualizations. When we run this,
it shows us several different plots. There's the famous dinosaur,
a bullseye, a star. R is a pretty powerful visualization tool. You could use the relationships between
data points to create many other shapes. As you can see, you can do
a lot of things with R. Data visualizations like the ones we
just explored help you discover so much more about the data
you're working with. It's important to explore your data
in multiple ways to learn a little bit more about its story. Next, we'll learn how to use R
functions to check for bias.