Hi and welcome back. We've given you a big-picture
overview of R and RStudio. Now we'll turn our focus to the actual programming and coding you'll do using RStudio. I went pretty far in my career
not knowing programming before it became clear, I needed to learn it. Getting to know R was such a valuable
learning experience. It took some time, and I reached out to
more-experienced R users with lots of questions. Eventually, it all
came together for me. Being open to learning
new skills is such an important
part of your career. Now I'm able to help you
learn some new skills too. I'll start by sharing
the fundamentals of programming using R in RStudio. Earlier, we explained how
R is like the engine of a car and RStudio is
like the accelerator, steering wheel, and
dashboard all in one. Getting to know
fundamentals will help you keep your R car running smoothly. These fundamentals are both
alike and different from the other analysis
platforms you've come to know well: spreadsheets and SQL. Then we'll move on to
coding in RStudio. We'll discuss the
syntax for performing calculations and the standards and naming conventions
for all code. We'll also explore the
R tool known as a pipe, which you'll use to
make a sequence of code easier to work
with and read. Then we'll check out R packages. While these packages won't
be delivered to your door, they are delivered
by the R community. These packages contain
reusable functions and more, and are usually built by users
for users like yourself. We'll get to know a collection of packages called the Tidyverse. You'll learn how to
install the Tidyverse so you can start
using it in RStudio. We'll also work with some of the more popular
Tidyverse packages like ggplot2 for visualization. You'll be able to carry over
what you've learned about RStudio to the next
part of the program, where you'll start
working with data. As we explained earlier,
for this program, we'll use the in-browser version of RStudio: RStudio Cloud. But RStudio is also
available to be downloaded. So let's get going. See you soon.