Hello there. Earlier, we showed you how to
get started using R markdown. We created a Markdown
document called an RMD file, which is super useful for making and
saving a final report that summarizes your data exploration and
analysis findings. In this video, we'll check out the
structure of the text in an RMD file and how you could format it to better
organize and emphasize your findings. Let's go into RStudio and
open the file we saved earlier called R Markdown Intro. If you're working along with us and
don't have a file saved, you can open up a new R Markdown or
RMD file using the file menu. If you're prompted to install packages,
go ahead and click Yes. Click Okay to open with the default
options and then save your file. Now let's dig deeper into this
file. We'll start at the top. This is the YAML header section. YAML is a language for
data that translates it, so it's readable. Fun fact: YAML originally stood for
yet another markup language. This section is called out using three
dashes on the first and last lines. This syntax automatically
creates the YAML header section when it's used in an RMD file. In an RMD file, this section's
basically for metadata or the data about the data
in the rest of the file. The title author, date and file type of an output are automatically
included when you create a new file. There's lots of different functions and
formatting options in this section. For now, just make sure you have at least
the four details we've got in our file now. You can use the template that appears when
you open the file and just edit over it. Or you can start from scratch
using the three dashes to create the YAML section and
the rest of the content in the file. We'll cover these steps over the next few
videos and in the other program resources. Next, let's check out the text
in the white areas of our file. Think of the text as a way to comment on
and explain your code and analysis and any visualizations you're including. You can format the text to include links, ordered lists, equations and more. The text is formatted using Markdown, the syntax we introduced earlier. We've included a reading that shows
you all of the ways to format text, as well as lots of other great
Markdown tips and tricks. You'll also learn some more formatting
examples in the next video. For now, let's try some
examples that are in this file. On line 12, there's two hashtags and a space before the words R Markdown. Hashtags are used for headers. The more hashtags, the smaller the header. The space is important as well. Otherwise RStudio won't
recognize that this is a header. Let's knit our file again. There's the R Markdown
header in the HTML file. If we add two more hashtags
in the dot RMD file and click knit once again, the output changes. The header's now smaller. We'll change it back
because the original format made sense. Since this header is introducing
information about R Markdown that comes in the next two paragraphs,
we want to emphasize it. In the first paragraph of this section,
there's a brief summary of Markdown. There's a link in the text, and
it's formatted using angle brackets. Using these brackets results in
a clickable link in the output. That's a handy feature if you want
to refer to any helpful links or include them as sources for your analysis. In the next paragraph, knit is set off with two asterisks
on either side of the word. This bolds the word. Using one asterisk on either side
would instead italicize the word. Let's scroll down to
the last paragraph. Here we've got some in-line code, which can be inserted directly
into the text of a dot RMD file. The code appears in a gray box like
the code chunks we'll talk about soon. Using in-line code like this
lets you refer to the code directly as you explain it. Let's knit our file one more time. All the formatting works
together to make a well designed, readable file that's easy to share
with stakeholders and team members. That's it for now. But there's lots more to learn
about creating your own reports. Stay tuned.