First slide: Agenda 
Provide a high-level bulleted list of the topics you will cover and the amount of time you will spend on each. Every company’s norms are different, but in general, most presentations run from 30 minutes to an hour at most. Here is an example of a 30-minute agenda:

Introductions (4 minutes)
Project overview and goals (5 minutes)
Data and analysis (10 minutes)
Recommendations (3 minutes)
Actionable steps (3 minutes)
Questions (5 minutes)
Second slide: Purpose
Everyone might not be familiar with your project or know why it is important. They didn’t spend the last couple of weeks thinking about the analysis and results of your project like you did. This slide summarizes the purpose of the project and why it is important to the business for your audience.

Here is an example of a purpose statement:

Service center consolidation is an important cost savings initiative. The aim of this project was to determine the impact of service center consolidation on customer response times. 

Third slide: Data/analysis 
First, It really is possible to tell your data story in a single slide if you summarize the key things about your data and analysis. You may have supporting slides with additional data or information in an appendix at the end of the presentation. 

But, if you choose to tell your story using more than one slide, keep the following in mind:

Slides typically have a logical order (beginning, middle, and end) to fully build the story. 
Each slide should logically introduce the slide that follows it. Visual cues from the slides or verbal cues from your talking points should let the audience know when you will go on to the next slide. 
Remember not to use too much text on the slides. When in doubt, refer back to the second tip on preparing talking points and limiting the text on slides. 
The high-level information that people read from the slides shouldn’t be the same as the information you provide in your talking points. There should be a nice balance between the two to tell a good story. You don’t want to simply read or say the words on the slides.
For extra visuals on the slides, use animations. For example, you can:

Fade in one bullet point at a time as you discuss each on a slide.
Only display the visual that is relevant to what you are talking about (fade out non-relevant visuals).
Use arrows or callouts to point to a specific area of a visual that you are using.
Fourth slide: Recommendations
If you have been telling your story well in the previous slides, the recommendations will be obvious to your audience. This is when you might get a lot of questions about how your data supports your recommendations. Be ready to communicate how your data backs up your conclusion or recommendations in different ways. Having multiple words to state the same thing also helps if someone is having difficulty with one particular explanation.

Fifth slide: Call to action
Sometimes the call to action can be combined with the recommendations slide. If there are multiple actions or activities recommended, a separate slide is best. 

Recall our example of a purpose statement: 
Service center consolidation is an important cost savings initiative. The aim of this project was to determine the impact of service center consolidation on customer response times. 

Suppose the data analysis showed that service center consolidation negatively impacted customer response times. A call to action might be to examine if processes need to change to bring customer response times back to what they were before the consolidation.