Hello again. So far we've
learned that the biases we have as people can end
up creating biased data. We're biased when we have
preferences based on our own preconceived or even
subconscious notions. When data is biased, it
can systematically skew results in a certain direction,
making them unreliable. We covered this earlier using sampling bias as an example. Sampling bias is
when a sample isn't representative of the
population as a whole. You can avoid this by making sure the sample is chosen at random so that all parts of the population have an equal chance
of being chosen. If you don't use random sampling
during data collection, you end up favoring one outcome. Here's a simple
way to look at it. Let's say there's 50
students in one class, and you want to know
if the majority prefers warm weather
or cold weather. You decide to survey
ten female students, and determine that the
class prefers warm weather. But wait, there's some bias here. Your survey wasn't a
fair representation of the entire class
because it didn't include males and
non-binary students. If you'd used a more
randomized sample of the population that
included all genders, you'd have an unbiased sample. Unbiased sampling
is a sample that is representative of the
population being measured. Another great way to discover
if you're working with unbiased data is to bring the results to life
with visualizations. In the class example
we just covered, you could visualize
the number of male and female students in the class overall
with a bar chart. You could then compare that to a similar bar chart showing
the number of male and female students you surveyed. This will help you
easily identify any big issues with your sample. As a general rule, it's our goal as data analysts to avoid bias. But believe it or not, there are actually situations where a biased sample
can come in handy. If you're trying to get
more actionable data, bias can help you
narrow your focus. For example, if you
were trying to predict and plan a company's budget
for the coming year, you'd probably check out
last year's sales. You're technically
using biased data because it's not taking into account other variables. But it is helping you
narrow your focus. Now that we know what bias looks like from a sampling perspective, let's explore some
other types of bias and how to recognize
them, coming up next.