Ready to get back into it? Great. There's just something so liberating about being able to find information on any subject at all
on the internet. Can't remember the third line of your favorite childhood song? Curious who had the
most home runs in 1986? Want to teach yourself
sign language? Just pop open your laptop, type up some text, and, poof, you have what you need. Many groups think
we should also have this level of access to data. There's even a global movement that believes the openness of data can transform society
and how decisions are made. So far, we've talked a lot
about the power of data and the importance of
data ethics concerns, including ownership, transaction transparency,
consent, currency, and privacy. Now let's talk about openness. When referring to data, openness refers to free access, usage and sharing of data. Sometimes we refer to
this as open data, but it doesn't mean we ignore the other aspects of
data ethics we covered. We should still be transparent, respect privacy, and make sure we have consent for data
that's owned by others. This just means we
can access, use, and share that data if it
meets these high standards. For example, there are standards around availability and access. Open data must be
available as a whole, preferably by downloading over the internet in a convenient
and modifiable form. The website Data.gov is
a great example of this. You can download science
and research data for a wide range of industries in simple file formats,
like a spreadsheet. Another standard surrounds
re-use and redistribution. Open data must be provided under terms that allow reuse
and redistribution, including the ability to
use it with other data sets. The last area is
universal participation. Everyone must be able to use, re-use and redistribute the data. There shouldn't be any
discrimination against fields, persons, or groups. No one can place
restrictions on the data, like making it only available for use in a specific industry. Now let's talk a little
more about why open data is such a great thing and how it can help you as a data analyst. One of the biggest benefits
of open data is that credible databases can
be used more widely. More importantly, all of that
good data can be leveraged, shared, and combined
with other data. Just imagine the
impact that would have on scientific collaboration, research advances, analytical capacity,
and decision making! For example, in human health, openness allows us to
access and combine diverse data to detect
diseases earlier and earlier. In government, it can
help hold leaders accountable and provide better access to
community services. The possibilities and the
benefits are almost endless. But of course, every big
idea has its challenges. A whole lot of
resources are needed to make the technological
shift to open data. Interoperability is key
to open data's success. Companies have to cooperate and work together to
make data useful. Databases must be accessible with common formats and terminology. Then there's the
bigger cultural shift that needs to happen
where we stop seeing databases as restricted
intellectual property and start looking at
them as a common good. While there's
serious potential in the open, timely, fair, and simple sharing of data, its future will depend on how effectively these
challenges are addressed. As a data analyst, I say, the sooner the better! Speaking of which, we're
going to talk more about open data and see its use in
action in an upcoming video. Now that you've learned
all about data ethics, you have some very
important principles to guide you on
your data journey. Anytime you're not
sure of your data, remember what you've
learned here. Happy trails!