Databases are essential
tools for data analysts. I use them constantly, just about all of the data I access is stored
within databases. Databases store an
organized data, making it much easier for data analysts to manage and
access information. They help us get insights faster, make data driven decisions,
and solve problems. You've already heard a
bit about what databases are and how they're
used by data analysts. Now let's learn more about database features and components. As you've learned, a database is a collection of data stored
in a computer system. Here's a simple
database structure. It contains tables with information from a
car manufacturer. The top level includes
car dealerships, product details and repair parts. Then if you drill down to the next level by selecting
one of those tables, you'll find more specific
details about each item. This is called a
relational database. A relational database is a database that
contains a series of tables that can be connected
to form relationships. For two tables to
have a relationship, one or more of the same fields must exist inside both tables. For example, here, Branch ID exists in this
table and this one. If a field exists
within both tables, we can use it to connect
the tables together. Certain fields can also be
referred to as a primary key. A primary key is
an identifier that references a column in
which each value is unique. So when our car
manufacturer example, we can see that branch ID is the primary key in
the dealership table. VIN is the primary key in the product details table and part ID is the primary key
in the repair parts table. Primary keys are unique and can only exist once
within a given table. There's also foreign keys. A foreign key is a field within a table that's a primary
key in another table. In our example, the VIN is the foreign key in
the repair part table. As you can see, a table can
only have one primary key, but it can have
multiple foreign keys. Relational databases are great for keeping data consistent, no matter where it's accessed. Mobile banking is an
interesting example of this. Let's say you
deposit a check into your bank account using
your mobile banking app, then you check your account
balance on your computer, the database relationship
make sure that the deposit shows up
immediately on both platforms. Or let's say you work on
a team of data analysts located in different offices,
relational databases, make sure everyone's looking
at the exact same data and can collaborate using a single set of
accurate information. Now, let's explore
some different types of relational databases. First, a normalized database is a database in which
only related data is stored at each table. The main idea behind database normalization is
that a table should be about a specific topic and only includes supporting related data. This is important
because it minimizes the chances of
having redundancies. A redundancy occurs
when the same piece of data is stored in two or
more separate places. Redundancy is waste time
and space in your database. For example, if you needed
to change a piece of data in a database
with redundancies, you have to make the same update in every place where
the data exists. That would take a lot
of time and could easily lead to typos
or other errors. Next up, we have schemas. A schema is a way of describing the way something is organized. You can think about
data schemas like blueprints of how the
database is constructed. Schemas are useful when
you're learning about a new data set or designing
a relational database. You'll learn more about
different types of schemas in an upcoming reading. You've learned a lot
about databases and how data analysts use them to gain important
insights every day. Soon you'll begin
practicing how to access and analyze data from
actual databases. That will be a great
opportunity to improve your understanding of
database organization, the benefits of each method, and how you might use databases in your future analytics career.