All right, well, let's
get right into it. We sent you a case study
of a hypothetical scenario where a school needs to improve its communication
with parents, and we asked for basically your top insights
into how this can be solved. Can you take me through
your thought process? Sure. I just want to say this
is such a great scenario. I really enjoyed working with it, and it's something
I imagine a lot of schools have to deal with. This is what I came up with. Here's the presentation
that I put together, "Bridging the Communication
Gap between Teachers & Parents" for Creekside
Middle School. The background problem was
that there were sporadic or non-existing communication between teachers and parents. The solution that we're trying
to come up with is to help the middle school design an
app for parents to stay updated on school news and their children's
classes and activities. But for our analytical
goals, we had two. The first one is, we need
to look into the why. Why do we want to create
the app in the first place? And why are we interested in
keeping parents informed? We want to quantify
the impacts of doing that, parental involvement, on student test scores. And then we looked into the how. Once we do decide we're
going to create the app, what are parents interested in? What do they want to
learn more about? If we dig into the why first, this is what we found. We found that there
was a downward trend where students' test
scores have been falling since 2004
and that's a problem. The reason is because
parental involvement also dropped in 2004 despite there being a 14 percentage
point increase if there are parents involved versus when parents
are not involved. Basically we think the drop in the student test scores because it correlates
so well with parental involvement
that the lack of parental involvement
is the reason why test scores are dropping, and so that's why it's really important
for us to increase parental involvement to improve
our student test scores. That's the why. Next we
want to go into the how. What are the things that the parents would
want to know about? This data comes from a
survey in which we asked students what kind of activities that they are involved in, and most student
activities can be grouped into the following
three categories: sports, academics and
extracurricular clubs. And what's interesting
is if we looked at the news alerts
that's sent out, these are the things
that the parents are notified about currently, and broke it down
from sixth graders, seventh graders,
and eighth graders, we've found that
the seventh graders received the least attention. They had the fewest number
of news alerts published. What that means, these
two data points is that, number one for the categories, we should create three tabs
or a way in which we can easily group activities
into three buckets, the academic, sports and
extracurricular activities. Secondly, because
seventh graders were the ones who had the least
amount of attention, we would have the biggest
amount of impact if we prioritized targeting them
during our test launch. In summary, based on the
analysis that we did, the why we want to create an app in the
first place is because parental involvement is highly correlated with
higher test scores. And the how, how to
best design this app, when we build this app, we
want to make sure the app has three categories or three tabs for each activity category, and we should prioritize
a version 1 launch for parents
of seventh graders. Here's what a timeline of
events could look like. The first two weeks
for analysis and then we're presenting
the analysis now, and then good chunk of time
where you can build the app, and during the testing
and iteration, this is where we want to focus on the seventh graders,
get their feedback, and then finally we can launch and open it up to
all other grades. That's how we can build V1
or version 1 of the app. But we always want to improve. Further explorations
or ways in which we can improve for version
2 of the app is, we can look at
additional questions like what is the impact of having multiple children
involved in the same school? Does that help improve
test scores even further? What's the impact of having one caretaker involved
versus multiple? Thank you very much.
That's all I had. Well, great work Sally. You've really covered
a lot of ground for a short amount of time and
based on what you've examined, you understood the objective and captured who the client is and what they want
and used data and visuals that supported
your hypothesis. Can you tell me a little
bit more about what you would recommend as next steps? For sure. My recommendations
for next steps is twofold. One, we want to share these insights with the
person or the team building the app so that they can build an app for parents to easily move between those three tabs, the three activity
categories, and two, once we enter the testing
and iteration phase, we should prioritize building for seventh graders for
the biggest impact. Great, well done. I really appreciate
your time on this. I'll take a further look
into your presentation and my notes and I'll reach out
soon with my final thoughts. Thanks, Jordan. I
look forward to it.