Hi there. I'm so glad you're joining me for this last
part of the program. This is an end-of-
certificate project that Coursera and other
learning platforms usually call a capstone. The capstone brings everything
you've learned together. You'll have the
opportunity to take all of your new knowledge
and put it into practice with a data
analytics case study. In this video, we'll talk
more about what that entails and how it can help you stand out during
a job search. Case studies are practice
data analytics projects. When you're job hunting, you might be asked to
do a case study after the pre-screen call or
the first interview. The case study is
a common way for employers to assess job skills and gain insight into how you approach common
data-related challenges. Different employers
might send you different kinds of case studies. For example, you might be asked to clean and
analyze a data set, offer a proposal around how to measure the success of a project, or figure out and define metrics of success for a
specific product. Usually, there's a time limit for the case study
you've been asked to do. For example, a potential
employer might give you some sample data
and project questions and ask you to create
a presentation or memo with your recommendations
in 24 to 48 hours. That time limit can be
a little challenging. But the good news is, your answer to the case study
doesn't have to be perfect. What's important is that you show off your thought process so that the interviewers can understand how you
approach the problem. You can use the data
analysis process we've learned throughout
this program to guide you. Let's check out an example and break down all of the parts. This case study has all of the information we'd need
to perform this task. It starts here, with the
title and the industry focus: predicting employee attrition rate
for human resources. It also includes a
problem statement outlining what the
overall goal is. In this case, they're
asking for a deep dive into key data analytics concepts to predict the employee attrition
rate in the organization, and which factors influence an employee to leave
the organization. Basically, this case study
is interested in predicting the rate at which employees might leave the organization and why. There's some more specific
goals in the next section. It's asking us to find
the probability of an employee leaving the company
over the next five years. That's pretty straightforward,
but they're also interested in ways to
improve employee retention. This next section is really key. The deliverables are
what we'll actually give them once we've
completed the case study. In this example,
they're asking for a presentation outlining our findings and recommendations. Finally, they've
included some sections about the data we'll
use for this task. Here, it's a dataset
that we can download. Now we know more about
case studies and how they might be presented to us in
a job application process. But people who are passionate
about data analytics will sometimes do case studies on their own time and add them
to a personal portfolio. A portfolio is a collection of case studies that can be shared
with potential employers. Portfolios can be stored on
public websites like GitHub, Kaggle, or Tableau,
or on your blog. Your portfolio can also
be linked in your resume. This will give you examples
of how you approached data tasks in the past that you can talk about
in your interview. These portfolios
showcase your skills and help you stand out
in job applications. On top of the case study, we'll talk about building your portfolio and
how to share it. This will be a great
building block that you can use to
build up your resume. Coming up, we'll check out some great examples
of case studies and portfolios that will hopefully inspire you
as you start your own.