Okay Sally, can you
please tell me about a time when you dealt with an unexpected challenge at work? Of course. In retail, all sorts of problems can
show up out of nowhere, which I'm sure is the case for a lot of other
industries as well. But there's this one time I
was working in a store as a sales clerk and then an extremely unhappy
customer came in. She was really unhappy about a recent purchase she made on an exercise bike and demanded
someone go to her car, retrieve the bike, and
give her a refund. I explained that I'd be
happy to provide a refund, but I wanted to learn
more about what happened so we could potentially
salvage the situation. I asked her if there was
something wrong with the bike and she told me it was difficult for her to clip into and out of the bike
with her cycling shoes. She was upset because she spent so much
money on a bike that couldn't do what all exercise
bikes should be able to do. But upon further examination, turns out she was wearing
the wrong sized shoes. Yes, that is the problem. Absolutely. We got her a new pair of the right sized
shoes and to double-check I walked her over to one
of our display bikes, the same model that
she purchased. I had her go on the
bike to try it out. But she was unable
to click in and out of the bike as we expected, and then I noticed the issue. The clips themselves were
incompatible with the shoes. This was a manufacturing
issue rather than a user error. I apologize to the customer.
I informed my manager. Then called the bike manufacturer to let them know that
defect right away. They issued a recall immediately and asked
for the customer. I offered her two options. One, we can take that back and issue her a
refund immediately. But the problem with this is, she would be without a bike, which is what she
originally wanted. Number 2, the other option was to offer her a voucher for
any bike in the store, as well as a free pair
of cycling shoes that we ensured would fit
into the bike clips. After discussing these
possible solutions with both my manager and the customer, she chose the second option. The result was a happy
customer this time who despite coming into
our store really angry, left the store
extremely satisfied. My manager was also
very pleased because a happy customer is a customer
who is going to return. Wow, and what went through your thought process as you were trying to
solve this problem? Well, first, I had to assess
what the actual problem was. Did the customer simply not
like the product or was there a deeper issue that
had a possible solution? After I figured out what her
issue was with the shoes, I had to figure out the why. Why did her shoes not fit into something they
were designed to fit? After that resolved
it was a matter of coming up with solutions that would make the customer happy. Is that typical for how you
usually approach problems? Yeah. Pretty much, obviously every problem's
a little different. So I adjust my
approach accordingly. Generally, I just
like to use empathy whenever possible to
understand the context. Then find the root cause and map out a couple of solutions
to choose from. Well, that's really
great work, Sally. You used both critical thinking and problem-solving abilities, which is what you'd need to constantly succeed
as a data analyst.